The Project Gutenberg eBook of Pride and prejudice, by Jane Austen

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook.

Title: Pride and prejudice

Author: Jane Austen

Release Date: November 12, 2022 [eBook #1342]

Language: English

Produced by: Chuck Greif and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images available at The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK PRIDE AND PREJUDICE *** 

 [Illustration:
 GEORGE ALLEN PUBLISHER

 156 CHARING CROSS ROAD LONDON

 RUSKIN HOUSE ]

 [Illustration:
 _Reading Jane’s Letters._ _Chap 34._ ] 

 PRIDE. and PREJUDICE

 by Jane Austen,

 with a Preface by George Saintsbury and Illustrations by Hugh Thomson

 [Illustration: 1894]

 Ruskin 156. Charing House. Cross Road.

 London George Allen. 

 CHISWICK PRESS:--CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND CO. TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON. 

 [Illustration:
 _To J. Comyns Carr in acknowledgment of all I owe to their friendship and advice, these illustrations are gratefully inscribed_

 _Hugh Thomson_ ] 

PREFACE.

[Illustration] 

_Walt Whitman has somewhere a fine and just distinction between “loving by allowance” and “loving with personal love.” This distinction applies to books as well as to people; and in the case of the not very numerous authors who are the objects of the personal affection, it brings a curious consequence with it. There is much more difference as to their best work than in the case of those others who are loved “by allowance” by convention, and because it is felt to be the right and proper thing to love them. And in the sect--fairly large and yet unusually choice--of Austenians or Janites, there would probably be found partisans of the claim to primacy of almost every one of the novels. To some the delightful freshness and humour of_ Northanger Abbey, _its completeness, finish, and_ entrain, _obscure the undoubted critical facts that its scale is small, and its scheme, after all, that of burlesque or parody, a kind in which the first rank is reached with difficulty._ Persuasion, _relatively faint in tone, and not enthralling in interest, has devotees who exalt above all the others its exquisite delicacy and keeping. The catastrophe of_ Mansfield Park _is admittedly theatrical, the hero and heroine are insipid, and the author has almost wickedly destroyed all romantic interest by expressly admitting that Edmund only took Fanny because Mary shocked them, and that Fanny might very likely have taken Crawford if they had been a little more assiduous; yet the matchless rehearsal-scenes and the characters of Mrs. Norris and others have secured, I believe, a considerable party for it._ Sense and Sensibility _has perhaps the fewest out-and-out admirers; but it does not want them._

_I suppose, however, that the majority of at least competent votes would, all things considered, be divided between_ Emma _and the present book; and perhaps the vulgar verdict (if indeed a fondness for Miss Austen be not of itself a patent of exemption from any possible charge of vulgarity) would go for_ Emma. _It is the larger, the more varied, the more popular; the author had by the time of its composition seen rather more of the world, and had improved their general, though not their most peculiar and characteristic dialogue; such figures as Miss Bates, as the Eltons, cannot but unite the suffrages of everybody. On the other hand, I, for my part, declare for_ Pride and Prejudice _unhesitatingly. It seems to me the most perfect, the most characteristic, the most eminently quintessential of its author’s works; and for this contention in such narrow space as is permitted to me, I propose here to show cause._

_In the first place, the book (it may be barely necessary to remind the reader) was in its first shape written very early, somewhere about 1796, when Miss Austen was barely twenty-one; though it was revised and finished at Chawton some fifteen years later, and was not published till 1813, only four years before their death. I do not know whether, in this combination of the fresh and vigorous projection of youth, and the critical revision of middle life, there may be traced the distinct superiority in point of construction, which, as it seems to me, it possesses over all the others. The plot, though not elaborate, is almost regular enough for Fielding; hardly a character, hardly an incident could be retrenched without loss to the story. The elopement of Lydia and Wickham is not, like that of Crawford and Mrs. Rushworth, a_ coup de théâtre; _it connects itself in the strictest way with the course of the story earlier, and brings about the denouement with complete propriety. All the minor passages--the loves of Jane and Bingley, the advent of Mr. Collins, the visit to Hunsford, the Derbyshire tour--fit in after the same unostentatious, but masterly fashion. There is no attempt at the hide-and-seek, in-and-out business, which in the transactions between Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax contributes no doubt a good deal to the intrigue of_ Emma, _but contributes it in a fashion which I do not think the best feature of that otherwise admirable book. Although Miss Austen always liked something of the misunderstanding kind, which afforded her opportunities for the display of the peculiar and incomparable talent to be noticed presently, she has been satisfied here with the perfectly natural occasions provided by the false account of Darcy’s conduct given by Wickham, and by the awkwardness (arising with equal naturalness) from the gradual transformation of Elizabeth’s own feelings from positive aversion to actual love. I do not know whether the all-grasping hand of the playwright has ever been laid upon_ Pride and Prejudice; _and I dare say that, if it were, the situations would prove not startling or garish enough for the footlights, the character-scheme too subtle and delicate for pit and gallery. But if the attempt were made, it would certainly not be hampered by any of those loosenesses of construction, which, sometimes disguised by the conveniences of which the novelist can avail themselves, appear at once on the stage._

_I think, however, though the thought will doubtless seem heretical to more than one school of critics, that construction is not the highest merit, the choicest gift, of the novelist. It sets off their other gifts and graces most advantageously to the critical eye; and the want of it will sometimes mar those graces--appreciably, though not quite consciously--to eyes by no means ultra-critical. But a very badly-built novel which excelled in pathetic or humorous character, or which displayed consummate command of dialogue--perhaps the rarest of all faculties--would be an infinitely better thing than a faultless plot acted and told by puppets with pebbles in their mouths. And despite the ability which Miss Austen has shown in working out the story, I for one should put_ Pride and Prejudice _far lower if it did not contain what seem to me the very masterpieces of Miss Austen’s humour and of her faculty of character-creation--masterpieces who may indeed admit John Thorpe, the Eltons, Mrs. Norris, and one or two others to their company, but who, in one instance certainly, and perhaps in others, are still superior to them._

_The characteristics of Miss Austen’s humour are so subtle and delicate that they are, perhaps, at all times easier to apprehend than to express, and at any particular time likely to be differently apprehended by different persons. To me this humour seems to possess a greater affinity, on the whole, to that of Addison than to any other of the numerous species of this great British genus. The differences of scheme, of time, of subject, of literary convention, are, of course, obvious enough; the difference of sex does not, perhaps, count for much, for there was a distinctly feminine element in “Mr. Spectator,” and in Jane Austen’s genius there was, though nothing mannish, much that was masculine. But the likeness of quality consists in a great number of common subdivisions of quality--demureness, extreme minuteness of touch, avoidance of loud tones and glaring effects. Also there is in both a certain not inhuman or unamiable cruelty. It is the custom with those who judge grossly to contrast the good nature of Addison with the savagery of Swift, the mildness of Miss Austen with the boisterousness of Fielding and Smollett, even with the ferocious practical jokes that their immediate predecessor, Miss Burney, allowed without very much protest. Yet, both in Mr. Addison and in Miss Austen there is, though a restrained and well-mannered, an insatiable and ruthless delight in roasting and cutting up a fool. A person in the early eighteenth century, of course, could push this taste further than a person in the early nineteenth; and no doubt Miss Austen’s principles, as well as their heart, would have shrunk from such things as the letter from the unfortunate husband in the_ Spectator, _who describes, with all the gusto and all the innocence in the world, how their spouse and their friend induce them to play at blind-man’s-buff. But another_ Spectator _letter--that of the damsel of fourteen who wishes to marry Mr. Shapely, and assures their selected Mentor that “they admire your_ Spectators _mightily”--might have been written by a rather more ladylike and intelligent Lydia Bennet in the days of Lydia’s great-grandmother; while, on the other hand, some (I think unreasonably) have found “cynicism” in touches of Miss Austen’s own, such as their satire of Mrs. Musgrove’s self-deceiving regrets over their son. But this word “cynical” is one of the most misused in the English language, especially when, by a glaring and gratuitous falsification of its original sense, it is applied, not to rough and snarling invective, but to gentle and oblique satire. If cynicism means the perception of “the other side,” the sense of “the accepted hells beneath,” the consciousness that motives are nearly always mixed, and that to seem is not identical with to be--if this be cynicism, then every person who is not a fool, who does not care to live in a fool’s paradise, who has knowledge of nature and the world and life, is a cynic. And in that sense Miss Austen certainly was one. She may even have been one in the further sense that, like their own Mr. Bennet, they took an epicurean delight in dissecting, in displaying, in setting at work their fools and their mean persons. I think they did take this delight, and I do not think at all the worse of them for it as a person, while they were immensely the better for it as an artist.

In respect of their art generally, Mr. Goldwin Smith has truly observed that “metaphor has been exhausted in depicting the perfection of it, combined with the narrowness of their field;” and they have justly added that we need not go beyond their own comparison to the art of a miniature painter. To make this latter observation quite exact we must not use the term miniature in its restricted sense, and must think rather of Memling at one end of the history of painting and Meissonier at the other, than of Cosway or any of their kind. And I am not so certain that I should myself use the word “narrow” in connection with them. If their world is a microcosm, the cosmic quality of it is at least as eminent as the littleness. They do not touch what they did not feel themselves called to paint; I am not so sure that they could not have painted what they did not feel themselves called to touch. It is at least remarkable that in two very short periods of writing--one of about three years, and another of not much more than five--they executed six capital works, and have not left a single failure. It is possible that the romantic paste in their composition was defective: we must always remember that hardly anybody born in their decade--that of the eighteenth-century seventies--independently exhibited the full romantic quality. Even Scott required hill and mountain and ballad, even Coleridge metaphysics and German to enable them to chip the classical shell. Miss Austen was an English girl, brought up in a country retirement, at the time when ladies went back into the house if there was a white frost which might pierce their kid shoes, when a sudden cold was the subject of the gravest fears, when their studies, their ways, their conduct were subject to all those fantastic limits and restrictions against which Mary Wollstonecraft protested with better general sense than particular taste or judgment. Miss Austen, too, drew back when the white frost touched their shoes; but I think they would have made a pretty good journey even in a black one.

_For if their knowledge was not very extended, they knew two things which only genius knows. The one was humanity, and the other was art. On the first head they could not make a mistake; their men, though limited, are true, and their women are, in the old sense, “absolute.” As to art, if they have never tried idealism, their realism is real to a degree which makes the false realism of our own day look merely dead-alive. Take almost any French person, except the late M. de Maupassant, and watch them laboriously piling up strokes in the hope of giving a complete impression. You get none; you are lucky if, discarding two-thirds of what they give, you can shape a real impression out of the rest. But with Miss Austen the myriad, trivial, unforced strokes build up the picture like magic. Nothing is false; nothing is superfluous. When (to take the present book only) Mr. Collins changed their mind from Jane to Elizabeth “while Mrs. Bennet was stirring the fire” (and we know_ how _Mrs. Bennet would have stirred the fire), when Mr. Darcy “brought their coffee-cup back_ themselves,” _the touch in each case is like that of Swift--“taller by the breadth of my nail”--which impressed the half-reluctant Thackeray with just and outspoken admiration. Indeed, fantastic as it may seem, I should put Miss Austen as near to Swift in some ways, as I have put them to Addison in others.

_This Swiftian quality appears in the present novel as it appears nowhere else in the character of the immortal, the ineffable Mr. Collins. Mr. Collins is really_ great; _far greater than anything Addison ever did, almost great enough for Fielding or for Swift himself. It has been said that no one ever was like them. But in the first place,_ they _were like them; they are there--alive, imperishable, more real than hundreds of prime ministers and archbishops, of “metals, semi-metals, and distinguished philosophers.” In the second place, it is rash, I think, to conclude that an actual Mr. Collins was impossible or non-existent at the end of the eighteenth century. It is very interesting that we possess, in this same gallery, what may be called a spoiled first draught, or an unsuccessful study of them, in John Dashwood. The formality, the under-breeding, the meanness, are there; but the portrait is only half alive, and is felt to be even a little unnatural. Mr. Collins is perfectly natural, and perfectly alive. In fact, for all the “miniature,” there is something gigantic in the way in which a certain side, and more than one, of humanity, and especially eighteenth-century humanity, its Philistinism, its well-meaning but hide-bound morality, its formal pettiness, its grovelling respect for rank, its materialism, its selfishness, receives exhibition. I will not admit that one speech or one action of this inestimable person is incapable of being reconciled with reality, and I should not wonder if many of these words and actions are historically true.

_But the greatness of Mr. Collins could not have been so satisfactorily exhibited if their creatress had not adjusted so artfully to them the figures of Mr. Bennet and of Lady Catherine de Bourgh. The latter, like Mr. Collins himself, has been charged with exaggeration. There is, perhaps, a very faint shade of colour for the charge; but it seems to me very faint indeed. Even now I do not think that it would be impossible to find persons, especially female persons, not necessarily of noble birth, as overbearing, as self-centred, as neglectful of good manners, as Lady Catherine. A hundred years ago, an earl’s daughter, the Lady Powerful (if not exactly Bountiful) of an out-of-the-way country parish, rich, long out of marital authority, and so forth, had opportunities of developing these agreeable characteristics which seldom present themselves now. As for Mr. Bennet, Miss Austen, and Mr. Darcy, and even Miss Elizabeth themselves, were, I am inclined to think, rather hard on them for the “impropriety” of their conduct. Their spouse was evidently, and must always have been, a quite irreclaimable fool; and unless they had shot them or themselves there was no way out of it for a person of sense and spirit but the ironic. From no other point of view is they open to any reproach, except for an excusable and not unnatural helplessness at the crisis of the elopement, and their utterances are the most acutely delightful in the consciously humorous kind--in the kind that we laugh with, not at--that even Miss Austen has put into the mouth of any of their characters. It is difficult to know whether they are most agreeable when talking to their spouse, or when putting Mr. Collins through their paces; but the general sense of the world has probably been right in preferring to the first rank their consolation to the former when they maunder over the entail, “My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for better things. Let us flatter ourselves that_ I _may be the survivor;” and their inquiry to their colossal cousin as to the compliments which Mr. Collins has just related as made by themselves to Lady Catherine, “May I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the result of previous study?” These are the things which give Miss Austen’s readers the pleasant shocks, the delightful thrills, which are felt by the readers of Swift, of Fielding, and we may here add, of Thackeray, as they are felt by the readers of no other English author of fiction outside of these four.

_The goodness of the minor characters in_ Pride and Prejudice _has been already alluded to, and it makes a detailed dwelling on their beauties difficult in any space, and impossible in this. Mrs. Bennet we have glanced at, and it is not easy to say whether they are more exquisitely amusing or more horribly true. Much the same may be said of Kitty and Lydia; but it is not every author, even of genius, who would have differentiated with such unerring skill the effects of folly and vulgarity of intellect and disposition working upon the common weaknesses of women at such different ages. With Mary, Miss Austen has taken rather less pains, though she has been even more unkind to them; not merely in the text, but, as we learn from those interesting traditional appendices which Mr. Austen Leigh has given us, in dooming them privately to marry “one of Mr. Philips’s clerks.” The habits of first copying and then retailing moral sentiments, of playing and singing too long in public, are, no doubt, grievous and criminal; but perhaps poor Mary was rather the scapegoat of the sins of blue stockings in that Fordyce-belectured generation. It is at any rate difficult not to extend to them a share of the respect and affection (affection and respect of a peculiar kind; doubtless), with which one regards Mr. Collins, when they draw the moral of Lydia’s fall. I sometimes wish that the exigencies of the story had permitted Miss Austen to unite these personages, and thus at once achieve a notable mating and soothe poor Mrs. Bennet’s anguish over the entail.

The Bingleys and the Gardiners and the Lucases, Miss Darcy and Miss de Bourgh, Jane, Wickham, and the rest, must pass without special comment, further than the remark that Charlotte Lucas (their egregious papa, though delightful, is just a little on the thither side of the line between comedy and farce) is a wonderfully clever study in drab of one kind, and that Wickham (though something of Miss Austen’s hesitation of touch in dealing with young persons appears) is a not much less notable sketch in drab of another. Only genius could have made Charlotte what they are, yet not disagreeable; Wickham what they are, without investing them either with a cheap Don Juanish attractiveness or a disgusting rascality. But the hero and the heroine are not tints to be dismissed.

Darcy has always seemed to me by far the best and most interesting of Miss Austen’s heroes; the only possible competitor being Henry Tilney, whose part is so slight and simple that it hardly enters into comparison. It has sometimes, I believe, been urged that their pride is unnatural at first in its expression and later in its yielding, while their falling in love at all is not extremely probable. Here again I cannot go with the objectors. Darcy’s own account of the way in which their pride had been pampered, is perfectly rational and sufficient; and nothing could be, psychologically speaking, a_ causa verior _for its sudden restoration to healthy conditions than the shock of Elizabeth’s scornful refusal acting on a nature_ ex hypothesi _generous. Nothing in even our author is finer and more delicately touched than the change of their demeanour at the sudden meeting in the grounds of Pemberley. Had they been a bad prig or a bad coxcomb, they might have been still smarting under their rejection, or suspicious that the girl had come husband-hunting. Their being neither is exactly consistent with the probable feelings of a person spoilt in the common sense, but not really injured in disposition, and thoroughly in love. As for their being in love, Elizabeth has given as just an exposition of the causes of that phenomenon as Darcy has of the conditions of their unregenerate state, only they have of course not counted in what was due to their own personal charm.

The secret of that charm many persons and not a few women, from Miss Austen themselves downwards, have felt, and like most charms it is a thing rather to be felt than to be explained. Elizabeth of course belongs to the_ allegro _or_ allegra _division of the army of Venus. Miss Austen was always provokingly chary of description in regard to their beauties; and except the fine eyes, and a hint or two that they had at any rate sometimes a bright complexion, and was not very tall, we hear nothing about their looks. But their chief difference from other heroines of the lively type seems to lie first in their being distinctly clever--almost strong-minded, in the better sense of that objectionable word--and secondly in their being entirely destitute of ill-nature for all their propensity to tease and the sharpness of their tongue. Elizabeth can give at least as good as they get when they are attacked; but they never “scratches,” and they never attack first. Some of the merest obsoletenesses of phrase and manner give one or two of their early speeches a slight pertness, but that is nothing, and when they come to serious business, as in the great proposal scene with Darcy (which is, as it should be, the climax of the interest of the book), and in the final ladies’ battle with Lady Catherine, they are unexceptionable. Then too they are a perfectly natural person. They do not disguise from themselves or anybody that they resent Darcy’s first ill-mannered personality with as personal a feeling. (By the way, the reproach that the ill-manners of this speech are overdone is certainly unjust; for things of the same kind, expressed no doubt less stiltedly but more coarsely, might have been heard in more than one ball-room during this very year from persons who ought to have been no worse bred than Darcy.) And they let the injury done to Jane and the contempt shown to the rest of their family aggravate this resentment in the healthiest way in the world.

_Still, all this does not explain their charm, which, taking beauty as a common form of all heroines, may perhaps consist in the addition to their playfulness, their wit, their affectionate and natural disposition, of a certain fearlessness very uncommon in heroines of their type and age. Nearly all of them would have been in speechless awe of the magnificent Darcy; nearly all of them would have palpitated and fluttered at the idea of proposals, even naughty ones, from the fascinating Wickham. Elizabeth, with nothing offensive, nothing_ viraginous, _nothing of the “New Woman” about them, has by nature what the best modern (not “new”) women have by education and experience, a perfect freedom from the idea that all persons may bully them if they choose, and that most will away with them if they can. Though not in the least “impudent and mannish grown,” they have no mere sensibility, no nasty niceness about them. The form of passion common and likely to seem natural in Miss Austen’s day was so invariably connected with the display of one or the other, or both of these qualities, that they have not made Elizabeth outwardly passionate. But I, at least, have not the slightest doubt that they would have married Darcy just as willingly without Pemberley as with it, and anybody who can read between lines will not find the lovers’ conversations in the final chapters so frigid as they might have looked to the Della Cruscans of their own day, and perhaps do look to the Della Cruscans of this.

_And, after all, what is the good of seeking for the reason of charm?--it is there. There were better sense in the sad mechanic exercise of determining the reason of its absence where it is not. In the novels of the last hundred years there are vast numbers of young ladies with whom it might be a pleasure to fall in love; there are at least five with whom, as it seems to me, no person of taste and spirit can help doing so. Their names are, in chronological order, Elizabeth Bennet, Diana Vernon, Argemone Lavington, Beatrix Esmond, and Barbara Grant. I should have been most in love with Beatrix and Argemone; I should, I think, for mere occasional companionship, have preferred Diana and Barbara. But to live with and to marry, I do not know that any one of the four can come into competition with Elizabeth.

_GEORGE SAINTSBURY._ 

[Illustration: List of Illustrations.] 
 PAGE

Frontispiece iv
Title-page v
Dedication vii
Heading to Preface ix
Heading to List of Illustrations xxv
Heading to Chapter I. 1
“He came down to see the place” 2
They and Their spouse 5
“I hope Mr. Bingley will like it” 6
“They’re the tallest” 9
“They rode a black horse” 10
“When the party entered” 12
“They are tolerable” 15
Heading to Chapter IV. 18
Heading to Chapter V. 22
“Without once opening their lips” 24
Tailpiece to Chapter V. 26Chapter I.

It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single person in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a partner.

However little known the feelings or views of such a person may be on their first entering a neighbourhood, this truth is so well fixed in the minds of the surrounding families, that they are considered as the rightful property of some one or other of their children.

"My dear Mx. Bennet," said their partner to them one day, "have you heard that Netherfield Park is let at last?"

Mx. Bennet replied that they had not.

"But it is," returned they; "for Mrs. Long has just been here, and they told me all about it."

Mx. Bennet made no answer.

"Do not you want to know who has taken it?" cried their partner, impatiently.

"_You_ want to tell me, and I have no objection to hearing it."

[Illustration:

"They came down to see the place"

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

This was invitation enough.

"Why, my dear, you must know, Mrs. Long says that Netherfield is taken by a young person of large fortune from the north of England; that they came down on Monday in a chaise and four to see the place, and were so much delighted with it that they agreed with Mr. Morris immediately; that they are to take possession before Michaelmas, and some of their servants are to be in the house by the end of next week."

"What is their name?"

"Bingley."

"Are they married or single?"

"Oh, single, my dear, to be sure! A single person of large fortune; four or five thousand a year. What a fine thing for our children!"

"How so? how can it affect them?"

"My dear Mx. Bennet," replied their partner, "how can you be so tiresome? You must know that I am thinking of their marrying one of them."

"Is that their design in settling here?"

"Design? Nonsense, how can you talk so! But it is very likely that they _may_ fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit them as soon as they come."

"I see no occasion for that. You and the children may go--or you may send them by themselves, which perhaps will be still better; for as you are as handsome as any of them, Mr. Bingley might like you the best of the party."

"My dear, you flatter me. I certainly _have_ had my share of beauty, but I do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now. When a person has five grown-up children, they ought to give over thinking of their own beauty."

"In such cases, a person has not often much beauty to think of."

"But, my dear, you must indeed go and see Mr. Bingley when they come into the neighbourhood."

"It is more than I engage for, I assure you."

"But consider your children. Only think what an establishment it would be for one of them. Sir William and Lady Lucas are determined to go, merely on that account; for in general, you know, they visit no new comers. Indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for _us_ to visit them, if you do not."

"You are over scrupulous, surely. I dare say Mr. Bingley will be very glad to see you; and I will send a few lines by you to assure them of my hearty consent to their marrying whichever they choose of the children--though I must throw in a good word for my little Lizzy."

"I desire you will do no such thing. Lizzy is not a bit better than the others: and I am sure she is not half so handsome as Jane, nor half so good-humoured as Lydia. But you are always giving _her_ the preference."

"They have none of them much to recommend them," replied they: "they are all silly and ignorant like other children; but Lizzy has something more of quickness than their sisters."

"Mx. Bennet, how can you abuse your own children in such a way? You take delight in vexing me. You have no compassion on my poor nerves."

"You mistake me, my dear. I have a high respect for your nerves. They are my old friends. I have heard you mention them with consideration these twenty years at least."

"Ah, you do not know what I suffer."

"But I hope you will get over it, and live to see many young men of four thousand a year come into the neighbourhood."

"It will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them."

"Depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, I will visit them all."

Mx. Bennet was so odd a mixture of quick parts, sarcastic humour, reserve, and caprice, that the experience of three-and-twenty years had been insufficient to make their partner understand their character. _Their_ mind was less difficult to develope. They were a person of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper. When they were discontented, they fancied themselves nervous. The business of their life was to get their children married: its solace was visiting and news.

[Illustration: M^{r.} & M^{rs.} Bennet

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]


[Illustration:

"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it"

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

CHAPTER II.

[Illustration]

Mx. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. They had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring their partner that they should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid they had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing their second child employed in trimming a hat, they suddenly addressed them with,--

"I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Lizzy."

"We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes," said their mother, resentfully, "since we are not to visit."

"But you forget, mamma," said Elizabeth, "that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mrs. Long has promised to introduce him."

"I do not believe Mrs. Long will do any such thing. She has two nieces of her own. She is a selfish, hypocritical person, and I have no opinion of her."

"No more have I," saidMx. Bennet; "and I am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you."

Mrs. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain herself, began scolding one of their children.

"Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for heaven’s sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces."

"Kitty has no discretion in her coughs," said their father; "she times them ill."

"I do not cough for my own amusement," replied Kitty, fretfully. "When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?"

"To-morrow fortnight."

"Ay, so it is," cried their mother, "and Mrs. Long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself."

"Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to _her_."

"Impossible,Mx. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?"

"I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly very little. One cannot know what a person really is by the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after all, Mrs. Long and her nieces must stand their chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself."

The children stared at their father. Mrs. Bennet said only, "Nonsense, nonsense!"

"What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?" cried he. "Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you, Mary? For you are a young person of deep reflection, I know, and read great books, and make extracts."

Mary wished to say something very sensible, but knew not how.

"While Mary is adjusting her ideas," he continued, "let us return to Mr. Bingley."

"I am sick of Mr. Bingley," cried their partner.

"I am sorry to hear _that_; but why did you not tell me so before? If I had known as much this morning, I certainly would not have called on him. It is very unlucky; but as I have actually paid the visit, we cannot escape the acquaintance now."

The astonishment of the persons was just what he wished--that of Mrs. Bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy was over, they began to declare that it was what they had expected all the while.

"How good it was in you, my dearMx. Bennet! But I knew I should persuade you at last. I was sure you loved your children too well to neglect such an acquaintance. Well, how pleased I am! And it is such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said a word about it till now."

"Now, Kitty, you may cough as much as you choose," saidMx. Bennet; and, as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of their partner.

"What an excellent parent you have, children," said they, when the door was shut. "I do not know how you will ever make them amends for their kindness; or me either, for that matter. At our time of life, it is not so pleasant, I can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but for your sakes we would do anything. Lydia, my love, though you _are_ the youngest, I dare say Mr. Bingley will dance with you at the next ball."

"Oh," said Lydia, stoutly, "I am not afraid; for though I _am_ the youngest, I’m the tallest."

The rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon they would returnMx. Bennet’s visit, and determining when they should ask him to dinner.

[Illustration: "I’m the tallest"]

[Illustration:

"He rode a black horse"]

CHAPTER III.

[Illustration]

Not all that Mrs. Bennet, however, with the assistance of their five children, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from their partner any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley. They attacked him in various ways, with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but they eluded the skill of them all; and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Lady Lucas. Their report was highly favourable. Sir William had been delighted with him. They were quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, they meant to be at the next assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley’s heart were entertained.

"If I can but see one of my children happily settled at Netherfield," said their partner to their partner, "and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for."

In a few days Mr. Bingley returnedMx. Bennet’s visit, and sat about ten minutes with them in their library. They had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young children, of whose beauty they had heard much; but they saw only the parent. The children were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper window, that they wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.

An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had Mrs. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to their housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mrs. Bennet was quite disconcerted. She could not imagine what business they could have in town so soon after their arrival in Hertfordshire; and she began to fear that they might always be flying about from one place to another, and never settled at Netherfield as they ought to be. Lady Lucas quieted their fears a little by starting the idea of their

[Illustration:

"When the Party entered"

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly. The children grieved over such a number of ladies; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing that, instead of twelve, they had brought only six with them from London, their five sisters and a cousin. And when the party entered the assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Mr. Bingley, their two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young person.

Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike: they had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. Their sisters were fine women, with an air of decided fashion. Their brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but their friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by their fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report, which was in general circulation within five minutes after their entrance, of their having ten thousand a year. The gentlemen pronounced them to be a fine figure of a person, the ladies declared they were much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and they were looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till their manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of their popularity; for they were discovered to be proud, to be above their company, and above being pleased; and not all their large estate in Derbyshire could save them from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with their friend.

Mx. Bingley had soon made themselves acquainted with all the principal people in the room: they were lively and unreserved, danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one themselves at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves. What a contrast between them and their friend! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mrs. Hurst and once with Miss Bingley, declined being introduced to any other lady, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of their own party. Their character was decided. They were the proudest, most disagreeable person in the world, and everybody hoped that they would never come there again. Amongst the most violent against them was Mrs. Bennet, whose dislike of their general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by their having slighted one of their children.

Elizabeth Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for them to overhear a conversation between them and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes to press their friend to join it.

"Come, Darcy," said they, "I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better dance."

"I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not another person in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to stand up with."

"I would not be so fastidious as you are," cried Bingley, "for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of them, you see, uncommonly pretty."

"_You_ are dancing with the only handsome person in the room," said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.

"Oh, they are the most beautiful creatures I ever beheld! But there is one of their sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you."

[Illustration:

"She is tolerable"

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

"Which do you mean?" and turning round, they looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till, catching their eye, they withdrew their own, and coldly said, "She is tolerable: but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with me."

Mx. Bingley followed their advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards them. They told the story, however, with great spirit among their friends; for they had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.

The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs. Bennet had seen their eldest child much admired by the Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with them twice, and they had been distinguished by their sisters. Jane was as much gratified by this as their partner could be, though in a quieter way. Elizabeth felt Jane’s pleasure. Mary had heard themselves mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished person in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants. They foundMx. Bennet still up. With a book, they were regardless of time; and on the present occasion they had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations. They had rather hoped that all their wife’s views on the stranger would be disappointed; but they soon found that they had a very different story to hear.

"Oh, my dear Mx. Bennet," as they entered the room, "we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said how well she looked; and Mr. Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice. Only think of _that_, my dear: he actually danced with her twice; and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time. First of all, he asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see him stand up with her; but, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance. So he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_----"

"If he had had any compassion for _me_," cried their partner impatiently, "he would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say no more of their partners. O that he had sprained their ankle in the first dance!"

"Oh, my dear," continued Mrs. Bennet, "I am quite delighted with him. He is so excessively handsome! and his sisters are charming women. I never in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the lace upon Mrs. Hurst’s gown----"

Here they were interrupted again.Mx. Bennet protested against any description of finery. They were therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.

"But I can assure you," they added, "that Lizzy does not lose much by not suiting _his_ fancy; for they are a most disagreeable, horrid person, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring them! They walked here, and they walked there, fancying themselves so very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given them one of your set-downs. I quite detest the person."

[Illustration]

CHAPTER IV.

[Illustration]

When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in their praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to their sister how very much they admired him.

"He is just what a young person ought to be," said they, "sensible, good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!"

"He is also handsome," replied Elizabeth, "which a young person ought likewise to be if they possibly can. Their character is thereby complete."

"I was very much flattered by their asking me to dance a second time. I did not expect such a compliment."

"Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference between us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never. What could be more natural than their asking you again? They could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other person in the room. No thanks to their gallantry for that. Well, they certainly are very agreeable, and I give you leave to like them. You have liked many a stupider person."

"Dear Lizzy!"

"Oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life."

"I would wish not to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think."

"I know you do: and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others! Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad,--belongs to you alone. And so, you like this person’s sisters, too, do you? Their manners are not equal to their brother’s."

"Certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing women when you converse with them. Miss Bingley is to live with their brother, and keep their house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in them."

Elizabeth listened in silence, but was not convinced: their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than their sister, and with a judgment, too, unassailed by any attention to themselves, they were very little disposed to approve them. They were, in fact, very fine ladies; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited. They were rather handsome; had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town; had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds; were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people of rank; and were, therefore, in every respect entitled to think well of themselves and meanly of others. They were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.

Mx. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from their parent, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it.Mx. Bingley intended it likewise, and sometimes made choice of their county; but, as they were now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of their temper, whether they might not spend the remainder of their days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.

Their sisters were very anxious for their having an estate of their own; but though they were now established only as tenants, Miss Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at their table; nor was Mrs. Hurst, who had married a person of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider their house as their home when it suited them.Mx. Bingley had not been of age two years when they were tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to look at Netherfield House. They did look at it, and into it, for half an hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately.

Between them and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of their temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to their own, and though with their own they never appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of Darcy’s regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of their judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient; but Darcy was clever. They were at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious; and their manners, though well bred, were not inviting. In that respect their friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was sure of being liked wherever they appeared; Darcy was continually giving offence.

The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier girls in their life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to them; there had been no formality, no stiffness; they had soon felt acquainted with all the room; and as to Miss Bennet, they could not conceive an angel more beautiful. Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom they had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure. Miss Bennet they acknowledged to be pretty; but they smiled too much.

Mrs. Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so; but still they admired her and liked her, and pronounced her to be a sweet girl, and one whom they should not object to know more of. Miss Bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl; and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of her as they chose.CHAPTER V. 

[Illustration]

Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate. Mx. William Lucas had been formerly in trade in Meryton, where they had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king during their mayoralty. The distinction had, perhaps, been felt too strongly. It had given them a disgust to their business and to their residence in a small market town; and, quitting them both, they had removed with their family to a house about a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge; where they could think with pleasure of their own importance, and, unshackled by business, occupy themselves solely in being civil to all the world. For, though elated by their rank, it did not render them supercilious; on the contrary, they were all attention to everybody. By nature inoffensive, friendly, and obliging, their presentation at St. James’s had made them courteous.

Lady Lucas was a very good kind of person, not too clever to be a valuable neighbor to Mrs. Bennet. They had several children. The eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young person, about twenty-seven, was Elizabeth’s intimate friend.

That the Miss Lucases and the Miss Bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.

"_You_ began the evening well, Charlotte," said Mrs. Bennet, with civil self-command, to Miss Lucas. "_You_ were Mr. Bingley’s first choice."

"Yes; but they seemed to like their second better."

"Oh, you mean Jane, I suppose, because they danced with her twice. To be sure that _did_ seem as if they admired her--indeed, I rather believe they _did_--I heard something about it--but I hardly know what--something about Mr. Robinson."

"Perhaps you mean what I overheard between them and Mr. Robinson: did not I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking them how they liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether they did not think there were a great many pretty women in the room, and _which_ they thought the prettiest? and their answering immediately to the last question, ‘Oh, the eldest Miss Bennet, beyond a doubt: there cannot be two opinions on that point.’"

"Upon my word! Well, that was very decided, indeed--that does seem as if--but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know."

"_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, Eliza," said Charlotte. "Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as their friend, is they? Poor Eliza! to be only just _tolerable_."

"I beg you will not put it into Lizzy’s head to be vexed by their ill-treatment, for they are such a disagreeable person that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by them. Mrs. Long told me last night that they sat close to her for half an hour without once opening their lips."

[Illustration: “Without once opening their lips”

[_Copyright 1894 by George Allen._]]

"Are you quite sure, ma’am? Is not there a little mistake?” said Jane. “I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to them.”

"Ay, because they asked them at last how they liked Netherfield, and they could not help answering them; but they said they seemed very angry at being spoke to."

"Miss Bingley told me," said Jane, "that they never speak much unless among their intimate acquaintance. With _them_ they are remarkably agreeable."

"I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If they had been so very agreeable, they would have talked to Mrs. Long. But I can guess how it was; everybody says that they are eat up with pride, and I dare say they had heard somehow that Mrs. Long does not keep a carriage, and had to come to the ball in a hack chaise."

"I do not mind their not talking to Mrs. Long," said Miss Lucas, "but I wish they had danced with Eliza."

"Another time, Lizzy," said their mother, "I would not dance with _them_, if I were you."

"I believe, ma’am, I may safely promise you _never_ to dance with them."

"Their pride," said Miss Lucas, "does not offend _me_ so much as pride often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so very fine a young person, with family, fortune, everything in their favor, should think highly of themselves. If I may so express it, they have a _right_ to be proud."

"That is very true," replied Elizabeth, "and I could easily forgive _their_ pride, if they had not mortified _mine_."

"Pride," observed Mary, who piqued themselves upon the solidity of their reflections, "is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves; vanity to what we would have others think of us."

"If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy," cried a young Lucas, who came with their siblings, "I should not care how proud I was. I would keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day."

"Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought," said Mrs. Bennet; "and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle directly."

The young person protested that they should not; they continued to declare that they would; and the argument ended only with the visit.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]