Pride and Prejudice (First 3 Chapters)

by Unknown

Mrs. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Miss Bingley. She had always intended to visit her, though to the last always assuring her husband that she should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid he had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing her second son employed in trimming a hat, she suddenly addressed him with,--

“I hope Miss Bingley will like it, Lizzy.”

“We are not in a way to know _what_ Miss Bingley likes,” said his father, resentfully, “since we are not to visit.”

“But you forget, papa,” said Elizabeth, “that we shall meet her at the assemblies, and that Mr. Long has promised to introduce her.”

“I do not believe Mr. Long will do any such thing. He has two nephews of his own. He is a selfish, hypocritical man, and I have no opinion of him.”

“No more have I,” said Mrs. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that you do not depend on him serving you.”

Mr. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain himself, began scolding one of his sons.

“Don’t keep coughing so, Kitty, for heaven’s sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.”

“Kitty has no discretion in his coughs,” said his mother; “he times them ill.”

“I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Kitty, fretfully. “When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?”

“To-morrow fortnight.”

“Ay, so it is,” cried his father, “and Mr. Long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for him to introduce her, for he will not know her himself.”

“Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Miss Bingley to _him_.”

“Impossible, Mrs. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with her myself; how can you be so teasing?”

“I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly very little. One cannot know what a woman really is by the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after all, Mr. Long and his nephews must stand their chance; and, therefore, as he will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself.”

The boys stared at their mother. Mr. Bennet said only, “Nonsense, nonsense!”

“What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried she. “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you, Mary? For you are a young lady of deep reflection, I know, and read
Not all that Mr. Bennet, however, with the assistance of his five sons, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from his wife any satisfactory description of Miss Bingley. They attacked her in various ways, with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but she eluded the skill of them all; and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Sir William Lucas. His report was highly favourable. Lady Lucas had been delighted with her. She was quite young, wonderfully beautiful, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, she meant to be at the next assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Miss Bingley’s heart were entertained.

“If I can but see one of my sons happily settled at Netherfield,” said Mr. Bennet to his wife, “and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”

In a few days Miss Bingley returned Mrs. Bennet’s visit, and sat about ten minutes with her in her library. She had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young gentlemen, of whose beauty she had heard much; but she saw only the mother. The gentlemen were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper window, that she wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.

An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had Mr. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to his housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Miss Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mr. Bennet was quite disconcerted. He could not imagine what business she could have in town so soon after her arrival in Hertfordshire; and he began to fear that she might always be flying about from one place to another, and never settled at Netherfield as she ought to be. Sir William Lucas quieted his fears a little by starting the idea of her

being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Miss Bingley was to bring twelve gentlemen and seven ladies with her to the assembly. The boys grieved over such a number of gentlemen; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing that, instead of twelve, she had brought only six with her from London, her five brothers and a cousin. And when the party entered the assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Miss Bingley, her two brothers, the wife of the eldest, and another young woman.

Miss Bingley was good-looking and ladylike: she had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. Her brothers were fine men, with an air of decided fashion. Her sister-in-law, Mrs. Hurst, merely looked the lady; but her friend Miss Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by her fine, tall person, beautiful features, noble mien, and the report, which was in general circulation within five minutes after her entrance, of her having ten thousand a year. The ladies pronounced her to be a fine figure of a woman, the gentlemen declared she was much more beautiful than Miss Bingley, and she was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till her manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of her popularity; for she was discovered to be proud, to be above her company, and above being pleased; and not all her large estate in Derbyshire could save her from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with her friend.

Miss Bingley had soon made herself acquainted with all the principal people in the room: she was lively and unreserved, danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one herself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves. What a contrast between her and her friend! Miss Darcy danced only once with Mr. Hurst and once with Mr. Bingley, declined being introduced to any other gentleman, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of her own party. Her character was decided. She was the proudest, most disagreeable woman in the world, and everybody hoped that she would never come there again. Amongst the most violent against her was Mr. Bennet, whose dislike of her general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by her having slighted one of his sons.

Edward Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of ladies, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Miss Darcy had been standing near enough for him to overhear a conversation between her and Miss Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes to press her friend to join it.

“Come, Darcy,” said she, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better dance.”

“I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable. Your sisters are engaged, and there is not another woman in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to stand up with.”

“I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley, “for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of them, you see, uncommonly pretty.”

“_You_ are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room,” said Miss Darcy, looking at the eldest Miss Bennet.

“Oh, she is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.”

“Which do you mean?” and turning round, she looked for a moment at Elizabeth, till, catching her eye, she withdrew her own, and coldly said, “She is tolerable: but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young ladies who are slighted by other women. You had better return to your partner and enjoy her smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.”

Miss Bingley followed her advice. Miss Darcy walked off; and Elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards her. She told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.

The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mrs. Bennet had seen her eldest daughter much admired by the Netherfield party. Miss Bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been distinguished by her sisters. Jane was as much gratified by this as her mother could be, though in a quieter way. Elizabeth felt Jane’s pleasure. Mary had heard herself mentioned to Miss Bingley as the most accomplished girl in the neighbourhood; and Catherine and Lydia had been fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants. They found Mrs. Bennet still up. With a book, she was regardless of time; and on the present occasion she had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations. She had rather hoped that all her wife’s views on the stranger would be disappointed; but she soon found that she had a very different story to hear.

“Oh, my dear Mrs. Bennet,” as she entered the room, “we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there. Jane was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said how well she looked; and Miss Bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice. Only think of _that_, my dear: she actually danced with her twice; and she was the only creature in the room that she asked a second time. First of all, she asked Miss Lucas. I was so vexed to see her stand up with her; but, however, she did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and she seemed quite struck with Jane as she was going down the dance. So she inquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next. Then, the two third she danced with Miss King, and the two fourth with Maria Lucas, and the two fifth with Jane again, and the two sixth with Lizzy, and the _Boulanger_----”

“If she had had any compassion for _me_,” cried her wife impatiently, “she would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say no more of her partners. O that she had sprained her ankle in the first dance!”

“Oh, my dear,” continued Mrs. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with her. She is so excessively beautiful! and her sisters are charming women. I never in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses. I dare say the lace upon Mrs. Hurst’s gown----”

Here she was interrupted again. Mrs. Bennet protested against any description of finery. She was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Miss Darcy.

“But I can assure you,” she added, “that Lizzy does not lose much by not suiting _her_ fancy; for she is a most disagreeable, horrid woman, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring her! She walked here, and she walked there, fancying herself so very great! Not beautiful enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given her one of your set-downs. I quite detest the woman.”
When Jane and Elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in her praise of Miss Bingley before, expressed to her sister how very much she admired her.

“She is just what a young woman ought to be,” said she, “sensible, good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!”

“She is also handsome,” replied Elizabeth, “which a young woman ought likewise to be if she possibly can. Her character is thereby complete.”

“I was very much flattered by her asking me to dance a second time. I did not expect such a compliment.”

“Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference between us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never. What could be more natural than her asking you again? She could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in the room. No thanks to her gallantry for that. Well, she certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like her. You have liked many a stupider person.”

“Dear Lizzy!”

“Oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life.”

“I would wish not to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think.”

“I know you do: and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others! Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad,--belongs to you alone. And so, you like this woman’s sisters, too, do you? Their manners are not equal to hers.”

“Certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing women when you converse with them. Miss Bingley is to live with her sister, and keep her house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in her.”

Elizabeth listened in silence, but was not convinced: their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than her sister, and with a judgment, too, unassailed by any attention to herself, she was very little disposed to approve them. They were, in fact, very fine ladies; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited. They were rather handsome; had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town; had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds; were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people of rank; and were, therefore, in every respect entitled to think well of themselves and meanly of others. They were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their sister’s fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.

Miss Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from her mother, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it. Miss Bingley intended it likewise, and sometimes made choice of her county; but, as she was now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of her temper, whether she might not spend the remainder of her days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.

Her brothers were very anxious for her having an estate of her own; but though she was now established only as a tenant, Miss Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at her table; nor was Mr. Hurst, who had married a woman of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider her house as his home when it suited him. Miss Bingley had not been of age two years when she was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to look at Netherfield House. She did look at it, and into it, for half an hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately.

Between her and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of her temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to her own, and though with her own she never appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of Darcy’s regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of her judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient; but Darcy was clever. She was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious; and her manners, though well bred, were not inviting. In that respect her friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was sure of being liked wherever she appeared; Darcy was continually giving offence.

The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or prettier boys in her life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to her; there had been no formality, no stiffness; she had soon felt acquainted with all the room; and as to Mr. Bennet, she could not conceive an angel more beautiful. Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom she had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure. Mr. Bennet she acknowledged to be pretty; but he smiled too much.

Mr. Hurst and his brother allowed it to be so; but still they admired him and liked him, and pronounced him to be a sweet boy, and one whom they should not object to know more of. Mr. Bennet was therefore established as a sweet boy; and their sister felt authorized by such commendation to think of him as she chose.