Pride and Prejudice (First 3 Chapters)

by Unknown

Mrs. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mrs. Bingley. She had always intended to visit her, though to the last always assuring her husband that she should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid he had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing her second son employed in trimming a hat, she suddenly addressed him with,--

“I hope Mrs. Bingley will like it, Lizzy.”

“We are not in a way to know _what_ Mrs. Bingley likes,” said his father, resentfully, “since we are not to visit.”

“But you forget, papa,” said Elizabeth, “that we shall meet her at the assemblies, and that Mr. Long has promised to introduce her.”

“I do not believe Mr. Long will do any such thing. He has two nephews of his own. He is a selfish, hypocritical man, and I have no opinion of him.”

“No more have I,” said Mrs. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that you do not depend on him serving you.”

Mr. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain himself, began scolding one of his sons.

“Don’t keep coughing so, Kit, for heaven’s sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.”

“Kit has no discretion in his coughs,” said his mother; “he times them ill.”

“I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Kit, fretfully. “When is your next ball to be, Lizzy?”

“To-morrow fortnight.”

“Ay, so it is,” cried his father, “and Mr. Long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for him to introduce her, for he will not know her himself.”

“Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mrs. Bingley to _him_.”

“Impossible, Mrs. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with her myself; how can you be so teasing?”

“I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly very little. One cannot know what a woman really is by the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after all, Mr. Long and his nephews must stand their chance; and, therefore, as he will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself.”

The boys stared at their mother. Mr. Bennet said only, “Nonsense, nonsense!”

“What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried she. “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you, Mark? For you are a young gentleman of deep reflection, I know, and read

Not all that Mr. Bennet, however, with the assistance of his five sons, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from his wife any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley. They attacked him in various ways, with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all; and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Lord Lucas. His report was highly favourable. Sir William had been delighted with him. He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley’s heart were entertained.

“If I can but see one of my sons happily settled at Netherfield,” said Mr. Bennet to his wife, “and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”

In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet’s visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library. He had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young gentlemen, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father. The gentlemen were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper window, that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.

An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had Mr. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to his housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mr. Bennet was quite disconcerted. He could not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and he began to fear that he might always be flying about from one place to another, and never settled at Netherfield as he ought to be. Lord Lucas quieted his fears a little by starting the idea of his

being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve gentlemen and seven ladies with him to the assembly. The boys grieved over such a number of gentlemen; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing that, instead of twelve, he had brought only six with him from London, his five brothers and a cousin. And when the party entered the assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Mr. Bingley, his two brothers, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.

Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike: he had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His brothers were fine men, with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report, which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year. The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his large estate in Derbyshire could save him from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his friend.

Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal people in the room: he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one himself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves. What a contrast between him and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mr. Hurst and once with Mr. Bingley’s brother, declined being introduced to any other gentleman, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party. His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again. Amongst the most violent against him was Mr. Bennet, whose dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his having slighted one of his sons.

Elliot Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of ladies, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for him to overhear a conversation between him and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes to press his friend to join it.

“Come, Darcy,” said he, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better dance.”

“I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable. Your brothers are engaged, and there is not another man in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to stand up with.”

“I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley, “for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant boys in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of them, you see, uncommonly handsome.”

“_You_ are dancing with the only handsome boy in the room,” said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Mr. Bennet.

“Oh, he is the most beautiful creature I ever beheld! But there is one of his brothers sitting down just behind you, who is very handsome, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.”

“Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at Elliot, till, catching his eye, he withdrew his own, and coldly said, “He is tolerable: but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young gentlemen who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy his smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.”

Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elliot remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. He told the story, however, with great spirit among his friends; for he had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.

The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mr. Bennet had seen his eldest son much admired by the Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with him twice, and he had been distinguished by his brothers. John was as much gratified by this as his father could be, though in a quieter way. Edward felt John’s pleasure. Mark had heard himself mentioned to Mr. Bingley as the most accomplished boy in the neighbourhood; and Christopher and Laurence had been fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. Bennet still up. With a book, he was regardless of time; and on the present occasion he had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations. He had rather hoped that all his husband’s views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found that he had a very different story to hear.

“Oh, my dear Mr. Bennet,” as he entered the room, “we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there. John was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said how well he looked; and Mr. Bingley thought him quite handsome, and danced with him twice. Only think of _that_, my dear: he actually danced with him twice; and he was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time. First of all, he asked Mr. Lucas. I was so vexed to see him stand up with him; but, however, he did not admire him at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with John as he was going down the dance. So he inquired who he was, and got introduced, and asked him for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with Mr. King, and the two fourth with Marcus Lucas, and the two fifth with John again, and the two sixth with Edward, and the _Boulanger_----”

“If he had had any compassion for _me_,” cried his husband impatiently, “he would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say no more of his partners. O that he had sprained his ankle in the first dance!”

“Oh, my dear,” continued Mr. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with him. He is so excessively handsome! and his brothers are charming men. I never in my life saw anything more elegant than their suits. I dare say the fabric upon Mr. Hurst’s coat----”

Here he was interrupted again. Mr. Bennet protested against any description of finery. He was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.

“But I can assure you,” he added, “that Edward does not lose much by not suiting _his_ fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring him! He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set-downs. I quite detest the man.”

When John and Edward were alone, the former, who had been cautious in his praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to his brother how very much he admired him.

“He is just what a young man ought to be,” said he, “sensible, good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!”

“He is also handsome,” replied Edward, “which a young man ought likewise to be if he possibly can. His character is thereby complete.”

“I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time. I did not expect such a compliment.”

“Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference between us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never. What could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help seeing that you were about five times as handsome as every other man in the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him. You have liked many a stupider person.”

“Dear Eddy!”

“Oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life.”

“I would wish not to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think.”

“I know you do: and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others! Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad,--belongs to you alone. And so, you like this man’s brothers, too, do you? Their manners are not equal to his.”

“Certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing men when you converse with them. Mr. Bingley is to live with his brother, and keep his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in him.”

Edward listened in silence, but was not convinced: their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than his brother, and with a judgment, too, unassailed by any attention to himself, he was very little disposed to approve them. They were, in fact, very fine gentlemen; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited. They were rather handsome; had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town; had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds; were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people of rank; and were, therefore, in every respect entitled to think well of themselves and meanly of others. They were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.

Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it. Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and sometimes made choice of his county; but, as he was now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.

His brothers were very anxious for his having an estate of his own; but though he was now established only as a tenant, Mr. Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at his table; nor was Mr. Hurst, who had married a woman of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider his house as his home when it suited him. Mr. Bingley had not been of age two years when he was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to look at Netherfield House. He did look at it, and into it, for half an hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately.

Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of Darcy’s regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient; but Darcy was clever. He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious; and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting. In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was sure of being liked wherever he appeared; Darcy was continually giving offence.

The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or handsomer boys in his life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to him; there had been no formality, no stiffness; he had soon felt acquainted with all the room; and as to Mr. Bennet, he could not conceive an angel more beautiful. Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure. Mr. Bennet he acknowledged to be handsome; but he smiled too much.

Mr. Hurst and his brother allowed it to be so; but still they admired him and liked him, and pronounced him to be a sweet boy, and one whom they should not object to know more of. Master Bennet was therefore established as a sweet boy; and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of him as he chose.
