Unknown

by Unknown

Mr. Bennet was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. Bingley. He had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his husband that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid he had no knowledge of it. It was then disclosed in the following manner. Observing his second son employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed him with,--

“I hope Mr. Bingley will like it, Elliot.”

“We are not in a way to know _what_ Mr. Bingley likes,” said his father, resentfully, “since we are not to visit.”

“But you forget, papa,” said Elliot, “that we shall meet him at the assemblies, and that Mr. Long has promised to introduce him.”

“I do not believe Mr. Long will do any such thing. He has two nephews of his own. He is a selfish, hypocritical man, and I have no opinion of him.”

“No more have I,” said Mr. Bennet; “and I am glad to find that you do not depend on him serving you.”

Mr. Bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain himself, began scolding one of his sons.

“Don’t keep coughing so, Kit, for heaven’s sake! Have a little compassion on my nerves. You tear them to pieces.”

“Kit has no discretion in his coughs,” said his father; “he times them ill.”

“I do not cough for my own amusement,” replied Kit, fretfully. “When is your next ball to be, Elliot?”

“To-morrow fortnight.”

“Ay, so it is,” cried his father, “and Mr. Long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for him to introduce him, for he will not know him himself.”

“Then, my dear, you may have the advantage of your friend, and introduce Mr. Bingley to _him_.”

“Impossible, Mr. Bennet, impossible, when I am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?”

“I honour your circumspection. A fortnight’s acquaintance is certainly very little. One cannot know what a man really is by the end of a fortnight. But if _we_ do not venture, somebody else will; and after all, Mr. Long and his nephews must stand their chance; and, therefore, as he will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, I will take it on myself.”

The boys stared at their father. Mr. Bennet said only, “Nonsense, nonsense!”

“What can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?” cried he. “Do you consider the forms of introduction, and the stress that is laid on them, as nonsense? I cannot quite agree with you _there_. What say you, Mark? For you are a young gentleman of deep reflection, I know, and read
Not all that Mr. Bennet, however, with the assistance of his five sons, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from his husband any satisfactory description of Mr. Bingley. They attacked him in various ways, with barefaced questions, ingenious suppositions, and distant surmises; but he eluded the skill of them all; and they were at last obliged to accept the second-hand intelligence of their neighbour, Mr. Lucas. His report was highly favourable. Sir William had been delighted with him. He was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party. Nothing could be more delightful! To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of Mr. Bingley’s heart were entertained.

“If I can but see one of my sons happily settled at Netherfield,” said Mr. Bennet to his husband, “and all the others equally well married, I shall have nothing to wish for.”

In a few days Mr. Bingley returned Mr. Bennet’s visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library. He had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young gentlemen, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father. The gentlemen were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper window, that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.

An invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had Mr. Bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to his housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all. Mr. Bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc. Mr. Bennet was quite disconcerted. He could not imagine what business he could have in town so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire; and he began to fear that he might always be flying about from one place to another, and never settled at Netherfield as he ought to be. Mr. Lucas quieted his fears a little by starting the idea of his

being gone to London only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that Mr. Bingley was to bring twelve gentlemen and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly. The boys grieved over such a number of gentlemen; but were comforted the day before the ball by hearing that, instead of twelve, he had brought only six with him from London, his five brothers and a cousin. And when the party entered the assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: Mr. Bingley, his two brothers, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.

Mr. Bingley was good-looking and gentlemanlike: he had a pleasant countenance, and easy, unaffected manners. His brothers were fine men, with an air of decided fashion. His brother-in-law, Mr. Hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend Mr. Darcy soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report, which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance, of his having ten thousand a year. The gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the gentlemen declared he was much handsomer than Mr. Bingley, and he was looked at with great admiration for about half the evening, till his manners gave a disgust which turned the tide of his popularity; for he was discovered to be proud, to be above his company, and above being pleased; and not all his large estate in Derbyshire could save him from having a most forbidding, disagreeable countenance, and being unworthy to be compared with his friend.

Mr. Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal people in the room: he was lively and unreserved, danced every dance, was angry that the ball closed so early, and talked of giving one himself at Netherfield. Such amiable qualities must speak for themselves. What a contrast between him and his friend! Mr. Darcy danced only once with Mr. Hurst and once with Mr. Bingley, declined being introduced to any other gentleman, and spent the rest of the evening in walking about the room, speaking occasionally to one of his own party. His character was decided. He was the proudest, most disagreeable man in the world, and everybody hoped that he would never come there again. Amongst the most violent against him was Mr. Bennet, whose dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his having slighted one of his sons.

Elliot Bennet had been obliged, by the scarcity of gentlemen, to sit down for two dances; and during part of that time, Mr. Darcy had been standing near enough for him to overhear a conversation between him and Mr. Bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes to press his friend to join it.

“Come, Darcy,” said he, “I must have you dance. I hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner. You had much better dance.”

“I certainly shall not. You know how I detest it, unless I am particularly acquainted with my partner. At such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable. Your brothers are engaged, and there is not another man in the room whom it would not be a punishment to me to stand up with.”

“I would not be so fastidious as you are,” cried Bingley, “for a kingdom! Upon my honour, I never met with so many pleasant lads in my life as I have this evening; and there are several of them, you see, uncommonly handsome.”

“_You_ are dancing with the only handsome lad in the room,” said Mr. Darcy, looking at the eldest Mr. Bennet.

“Oh, he is the most striking creature I ever beheld! But there is one of his brothers sitting down just behind you, who is very handsome, and I dare say very agreeable. Do let me ask my partner to introduce you.”

“Which do you mean?” and turning round, he looked for a moment at Elliot, till, catching his eye, he withdrew his own, and coldly said, “He is tolerable: but not handsome enough to tempt _me_; and I am in no humour at present to give consequence to young gentlemen who are slighted by other men. You had better return to your partner and enjoy his smiles, for you are wasting your time with me.”

Mr. Bingley followed his advice. Mr. Darcy walked off; and Elliot remained with no very cordial feelings towards him. He told the story, however, with great spirit among his friends; for he had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.

The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family. Mr. Bennet had seen his eldest son much admired by the Netherfield party. Mr. Bingley had danced with him twice, and he had been distinguished by his brothers. John was as much gratified by this as his father could be, though in a quieter way. Elliot felt John’s pleasure. Martin had heard himself mentioned to Mr. Bingley as the most accomplished lad in the neighbourhood; and Christopher and Leonard had been fortunate enough to be never without partners, which was all that they had yet learnt to care for at a ball. They returned, therefore, in good spirits to Longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants. They found Mr. Bennet still up. With a book, he was regardless of time; and on the present occasion he had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations. He had rather hoped that all his husband’s views on the stranger would be disappointed; but he soon found that he had a very different story to hear.

“Oh, my dear Mr. Bennet,” as he entered the room, “we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball. I wish you had been there. John was so admired, nothing could be like it. Everybody said how well he looked; and Mr. Bingley thought him quite handsome, and danced with him twice. Only think of _that_, my dear: he actually danced with him twice; and he was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time. First of all, he asked Mr. Lucas. I was so vexed to see him stand up with him; but, however, he did not admire him at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with John as he was going down the dance. So he inquired who he was, and got introduced, and asked him for the two next. Then, the two third he danced with Mr. King, and the two fourth with Mr. Lucas, and the two fifth with John again, and the two sixth with Elliot, and the _Boulanger_----”

“If he had had any compassion for _me_,” cried his husband impatiently, “he would not have danced half so much! For God’s sake, say no more of his partners. O that he had sprained his ankle in the first dance!”

“Oh, my dear,” continued Mr. Bennet, “I am quite delighted with him. He is so excessively handsome! and his brothers are charming men. I never in my life saw anything more elegant than their attire. I dare say the lace upon Mr. Hurst’s coat----”

Here he was interrupted again. Mr. Bennet protested against any description of finery. He was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of Mr. Darcy.

“But I can assure you,” he added, “that Elliot does not lose much by not suiting _his_ fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at all worth pleasing. So high and so conceited, that there was no enduring him! He walked here, and he walked there, fancying himself so very great! Not handsome enough to dance with! I wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set-downs. I quite detest the man.”
When John and Elliot were alone, the former, who had been cautious in his praise of Mr. Bingley before, expressed to his brother how very much he admired him.

“He is just what a young man ought to be,” said he, “sensible, good-humoured, lively; and I never saw such happy manners! so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!”

“He is also handsome,” replied Elliot, “which a young man ought likewise to be if he possibly can. His character is thereby complete.”

“I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time. I did not expect such a compliment.”

“Did not you? _I_ did for you. But that is one great difference between us. Compliments always take _you_ by surprise, and _me_ never. What could be more natural than his asking you again? He could not help seeing that you were about five times as handsome as every other man in the room. No thanks to his gallantry for that. Well, he certainly is very agreeable, and I give you leave to like him. You have liked many a stupider person.”

“Dear Elliot!”

“Oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general. You never see a fault in anybody. All the world are good and agreeable in your eyes. I never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life.”

“I would wish not to be hasty in censuring anyone; but I always speak what I think.”

“I know you do: and it is _that_ which makes the wonder. With _your_ good sense, to be so honestly blind to the follies and nonsense of others! Affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it everywhere. But to be candid without ostentation or design,--to take the good of everybody’s character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad,--belongs to you alone. And so, you like this man’s brothers, too, do you? Their manners are not equal to his.”

“Certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing men when you converse with them. Mr. Bingley is to live with his brother, and keep his house; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in him.”

Elliot listened in silence, but was not convinced: their behaviour at the assembly had not been calculated to please in general; and with more quickness of observation and less pliancy of temper than his brother, and with a judgment, too, unassailed by any attention to himself, he was very little disposed to approve them. They were, in fact, very fine gentlemen; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited. They were rather handsome; had been educated in one of the first private seminaries in town; had a fortune of twenty thousand pounds; were in the habit of spending more than they ought, and of associating with people of rank; and were, therefore, in every respect entitled to think well of themselves and meanly of others. They were of a respectable family in the north of England; a circumstance more deeply impressed on their memories than that their brother’s fortune and their own had been acquired by trade.

Mr. Bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it. Mr. Bingley intended it likewise, and sometimes made choice of his county; but, as he was now provided with a good house and the liberty of a manor, it was doubtful to many of those who best knew the easiness of his temper, whether he might not spend the remainder of his days at Netherfield, and leave the next generation to purchase.

His brothers were very anxious for his having an estate of his own; but though he was now established only as a tenant, Mr. Bingley was by no means unwilling to preside at his table; nor was Mr. Hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider his house as his home when it suited him. Mr. Bingley had not been of age two years when he was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to look at Netherfield House. He did look at it, and into it, for half an hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately.

Between him and Darcy there was a very steady friendship, in spite of a great opposition of character. Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the easiness, openness, and ductility of his temper, though no disposition could offer a greater contrast to his own, and though with his own he never appeared dissatisfied. On the strength of Darcy’s regard, Bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion. In understanding, Darcy was the superior. Bingley was by no means deficient; but Darcy was clever. He was at the same time haughty, reserved, and fastidious; and his manners, though well bred, were not inviting. In that respect his friend had greatly the advantage. Bingley was sure of being liked wherever he appeared; Darcy was continually giving offence.

The manner in which they spoke of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently characteristic. Bingley had never met with pleasanter people or finer lads in his life; everybody had been most kind and attentive to him; there had been no formality, no stiffness; he had soon felt acquainted with all the room; and as to Mr. Bennet, he could not conceive an angel more beautiful. Darcy, on the contrary, had seen a collection of people in whom there was little beauty and no fashion, for none of whom he had felt the smallest interest, and from none received either attention or pleasure. Mr. Bennet he acknowledged to be handsome; but he smiled too much.

Mr. Hurst and his brother allowed it to be so; but still they admired him and liked him, and pronounced him to be a sweet lad, and one whom they should not object to know more of. Mr. Bennet was therefore established as a sweet lad; and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of him as he chose.
Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family with whom the Bennets were particularly intimate. Mr. William Lucas had been formerly in trade in Meryton, where he had made a tolerable fortune, and risen to the honour of knighthood by an address to the king during his mayoralty. The distinction had, perhaps, been felt too strongly. It had given him a disgust to his business and to his residence in a small market town; and, quitting them both, he had removed with his family to a house about a mile from Meryton, denominated from that period Lucas Lodge; where he could think with pleasure of his own importance, and, unshackled by business, occupy himself solely in being civil to all the world. For, though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the contrary, he was all attention to everybody. By nature inoffensive, friendly, and obliging, his presentation at St. James’s had made him courteous.

Mr. Lucas was a very good kind of man, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to Mr. Bennet. They had several children. The eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young man, about twenty-seven, was Elliot’s intimate friend.

That the Mr. Lucases and the Mr. Bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to Longbourn to hear and to communicate.

“_You_ began the evening well, Charles,” said Mr. Bennet, with civil self-command, to Mr. Lucas. “_You_ were Mr. Bingley’s first choice.”

“Yes; but he seemed to like his second better.”

“Oh, you mean John, I suppose, because he danced with him twice. To be sure that _did_ seem as if he admired him--indeed, I rather believe he _did_--I heard something about it--but I hardly know what--something about Mr. Robinson.”

“Perhaps you mean what I overheard between him and Mr. Robinson: did not I mention it to you? Mr. Robinson’s asking him how he liked our Meryton assemblies, and whether he did not think there were a great many handsome men in the room, and _which_ he thought the handsomest? and his answering immediately to the last question, ‘Oh, the eldest Mr. Bennet, beyond a doubt: there cannot be two opinions on that point.’”

“Upon my word! Well, that was very decided, indeed--that does seem as if--but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.”

“_My_ overhearings were more to the purpose than _yours_, Elliot,” said Charles. “Mr. Darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend, is he? Poor Elliot! to be only just _tolerable_.”

“I beg you will not put it into Elliot’s head to be vexed by his ill-treatment, for he is such a disagreeable man that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by him. Mr. Long told me last night that he sat close to him for half an hour without once opening his lips.”

“Are you quite sure, sir? Is not there a little mistake?” said John. “I certainly saw Mr. Darcy speaking to him.”

“Ay, because he asked him at last how he liked Netherfield, and he could not help answering him; but he said he seemed very angry at being spoke to.”

“Mr. Bingley told me,” said John, “that he never speaks much unless among his intimate acquaintance. With _them_ he is remarkably agreeable.”

“I do not believe a word of it, my dear. If he had been so very agreeable, he would have talked to Mr. Long. But I can guess how it was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and I dare say he had heard somehow that Mr. Long does not keep a carriage, and had to come to the ball in a hack chaise.”

“I do not mind his not talking to Mr. Long,” said Mr. Lucas, “but I wish he had danced with Elliot.”

“Another time, Elliot,” said his father, “I would not dance with _him_, if I were you.”

“I believe, sir, I may safely promise you _never_ to dance with him.”

“His pride,” said Mr. Lucas, “does not offend _me_ so much as pride often does, because there is an excuse for it. One cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of himself. If I may so express it, he has a _right_ to be proud.”

“That is very true,” replied Elliot, “and I could easily forgive _his_ pride, if he had not mortified _mine_.”

“Pride,” observed Martin, who piqued himself upon the solidity of his reflections, “is a very common failing, I believe. By all that I have ever read, I am convinced that it is very common indeed; that human nature is particularly prone to it, and that there are very few of us who do not cherish a feeling of self-complacency on the score of some quality or other, real or imaginary. Vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously. A person may be proud without being vain. Pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves; vanity to what we would have others think of us.”

“If I were as rich as Mr. Darcy,” cried a young Lucas, who came with his brothers, “I should not care how proud I was. I would keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.”

“Then you would drink a great deal more than you ought,” said Mr. Bennet; “and if I were to see you at it, I should take away your bottle directly.”

The boy protested that he should not; he continued to declare that he would; and the argument ended only with the visit.
The gentlemen of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield. The visit was returned in due form. Mr. Bennet’s pleasing manners grew on the good-will of Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley; and though the father was found to be intolerable, and the younger brothers not worth speaking to, a wish of being better acquainted with _them_ was expressed towards the two eldest. By John this attention was received with the greatest pleasure; but Elliot still saw superciliousness in their treatment of everybody, hardly excepting even his brother, and could not like them; though their kindness to John, such as it was, had a value, as arising, in all probability, from the influence of their brother’s admiration. It was generally evident, whenever they met, that he _did_ admire him; and to _him_ it was equally evident that John was yielding to the preference which he had begun to entertain for him from the first, and was in a way to be very much in love; but he considered with pleasure that it was not likely to be discovered by the world in general, since John united with great strength of feeling, a composure of temper and an uniform cheerfulness of manner, which would guard him from the suspicions of the impertinent. He mentioned this to his friend, Mr. Lucas.

“It may, perhaps, be pleasant,” replied Charles, “to be able to impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be so very guarded. If a man conceals his affection with the same skill from the object of it, he may lose the opportunity of fixing him; and it will then be but poor consolation to believe the world equally in the dark. There is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself. We can all _begin_ freely--a slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement. In nine cases out of ten, a man had better show _more_ affection than he feels. Bingley likes your brother undoubtedly; but he may never do more than like him, if he does not help him on.”

“But he does help him on, as much as his nature will allow. If _I_ can perceive his regard for him, he must be a simpleton indeed not to discover it too.”

“Remember, Elliot, that he does not know John’s disposition as you do.”

“But if a man is partial to a man, and does not endeavor to conceal it, he must find it out.”

“Perhaps he must, if he sees enough of him. But though Bingley and John meet tolerably often, it is never for many hours together; and as they always see each other in large mixed parties, it is impossible that every moment should be employed in conversing together. John should therefore make the most of every half hour in which he can command his attention. When he is secure of him, there will be leisure for falling in love as much as he chooses.”

“Your plan is a good one,” replied Elliot, “where nothing is in question but the desire of being well married; and if I were determined to get a rich husband, or any husband, I dare say I should adopt it. But these are not John’s feelings; he is not acting by design. As yet he cannot even be certain of the degree of his own regard, nor of its reasonableness. He has known him only a fortnight. He danced four dances with him at Meryton; he saw him one morning at his own house, and has since dined in company with him four times. This is not quite enough to make him understand his character.”

“Not as you represent it. Had he merely _dined_ with him, he might only have discovered whether he had a good appetite; but you must remember that four evenings have been also spent together--and four evenings may do a great deal.”

“Yes: these four evenings have enabled them to ascertain that they both like Vingt-un better than Commerce, but with respect to any other leading characteristic, I do not imagine that much has been unfolded.”

“Well,” said Charles, “I wish John success with all my heart; and if he were married to him to-morrow, I should think he had as good a chance of happiness as if he were to be studying his character for a twelvemonth. Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance. If the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the least. They always continue to grow sufficiently unlike afterwards to have their share of vexation; and it is better to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.”

“You make me laugh, Charles; but it is not sound. You know it is not sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.”

Occupied in observing Mr. Bingley’s attention to his brother, Elliot was far from suspecting that he was himself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend. Mr. Darcy had at first scarcely allowed him to be handsome: he had looked at him without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, he looked at him only to criticise. But no sooner had he made it clear to himself and his friends that he had hardly a good feature in his face, than he began to find it was rendered uncommonly intelligent by the beautiful expression of his dark eyes. To this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying. Though he had detected with a critical eye more than one failure of perfect symmetry in his form, he was forced to acknowledge his figure to be light and pleasing; and in spite of his asserting that his manners were not those of the fashionable world, he was caught by their easy playfulness. Of this he was perfectly unaware: to him he was only the man who made himself agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought him handsome enough to dance with.

He began to wish to know more of him; and, as a step towards conversing with him himself, attended to his conversation with others. His doing so drew his notice. It was at Sir William Lucas’s, where a large party were assembled.

“What does Mr. Darcy mean,” said he to Charles, “by listening to my conversation with Colonel Forster?”

“That is a question which Mr. Darcy only can answer.”

“But if he does it any more, I shall certainly let him know that I see what he is about. He has a very satirical eye, and if I do not begin by being impertinent myself, I shall soon grow afraid of him.”

On his approaching them soon afterwards, though without seeming to have any intention of speaking, Mr. Lucas defied his friend to mention such a subject to him, which immediately provoking Elliot to do it, he turned to him and said,--

“Did not you think, Mr. Darcy, that I expressed myself uncommonly well just now, when I was teasing Colonel Forster to give us a ball at Meryton?”

“With great energy; but it is a subject which always makes a gentleman energetic.”

“You are severe on us.”

“It will be his turn soon to be teased,” said Mr. Lucas. “I am going to open the instrument, Elliot, and you know what follows.”

“You are a very strange creature by way of a friend!--always wanting me to play and sing before anybody and everybody! If my vanity had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, I would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers.” On Mr. Lucas’s persevering, however, he added, “Very well; if it must be so, it must.” And gravely glancing at Mr. Darcy, “There is a very fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar with--‘Keep your breath to cool your porridge,’--and I shall keep mine to swell my song.”

His performance was pleasing, though by no means capital. After a song or two, and before he could reply to the entreaties of several that he would sing again, he was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by his brother Martin, who having, in consequence of being the only plain one in the family, worked hard for knowledge and accomplishments, was always impatient for display.

Martin had neither genius nor taste; and though vanity had given him application, it had given him likewise a pedantic air and conceited manner, which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than he had reached. Elliot, easy and unaffected, had been listened to with much more pleasure, though not playing half so well; and Martin, at the end of a long concerto, was glad to purchase praise and gratitude by Scotch and Irish airs, at the request of his younger brothers, who with some of the Lucases, and two or three officers, joined eagerly in dancing at one end of the room.

Mr. Darcy stood near them in silent indignation at such a mode of passing the evening, to the exclusion of all conversation, and was too much engrossed by his own thoughts to perceive that Sir William Lucas was his neighbour, till Sir William thus began:--

“What a charming amusement for young people this is, Mr. Darcy! There is nothing like dancing, after all. I consider it as one of the first refinements of polished societies.”

“Certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies of the world: every savage can dance.”

Mr. William only smiled. “Your friend performs delightfully,” he continued, after a pause, on seeing Bingley join the group; “and I doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, Mr. Darcy.”

“You saw me dance at Meryton, I believe, sir.”

“Yes, indeed, and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the sight. Do you often dance at St. James’s?”

“Never, sir.”

“Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?”

“It is a compliment which I never pay to any place if I can avoid it.”

“You have a house in town, I conclude?”

Mr. Darcy bowed.

“I had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself, for I am fond of superior society; but I did not feel quite certain that the air of London would agree with Mr. Lucas.”

He paused in hopes of an answer: but his companion was not disposed to make any; and Elliot at that instant moving towards them, he was struck with the notion of doing a very gallant thing, and called out to him,--

“My dear Mr. Elliot, why are not you dancing? Mr. Darcy, you must allow me to present this young gentleman to you as a very desirable partner. You cannot refuse to dance, I am sure, when so much charm is before you.” And, taking his hand, he would have given it to Mr. Darcy, who, though extremely surprised, was not unwilling to receive it, when he instantly drew back, and said with some discomposure to Mr. William,--

“Indeed, sir, I have not the least intention of dancing. I entreat you not to suppose that I moved this way in order to beg for a partner.”

Mr. Darcy, with grave propriety, requested to be allowed the honour of his hand, but in vain. Elliot was determined; nor did Mr. William at all shake his purpose by his attempt at persuasion.

“You excel so much in the dance, Mr. Elliot, that it is cruel to deny me the happiness of seeing you; and though this gentleman dislikes the amusement in general, he can have no objection, I am sure, to oblige us for one half hour.”

“Mr. Darcy is all politeness,” said Elliot, smiling.

“He is, indeed: but considering the inducement, my dear Mr. Elliot, we cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object to such a partner?”

Elliot looked archly, and turned away. His resistance had not injured him with the gentleman, and he was thinking of him with some complacency, when thus accosted by Mr. Bingley,--

“I can guess the subject of your reverie.”

“I should imagine not.”

“You are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner,--in such society; and, indeed, I am quite of your opinion. I was never more annoyed! The insipidity, and yet the noise--the nothingness, and yet the self-importance, of all these people! What would I give to hear your strictures on them!”

“Your conjecture is totally wrong, I assure you. My mind was more agreeably engaged. I have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a handsome man can bestow.”

Mr. Bingley immediately fixed his eyes on his face, and desired he would tell him what gentleman had the credit of inspiring such reflections. Mr. Darcy replied, with great intrepidity,--

“Mr. Elliot Bennet.”

“Mr. Elliot Bennet!” repeated Mr. Bingley. “I am all astonishment. How long has he been such a favourite? and pray when am I to wish you joy?”

“That is exactly the question which I expected you to ask. A gentleman’s imagination is very rapid; it jumps from admiration to love, from love to matrimony, in a moment. I knew you would be wishing me joy.”

“Nay, if you are so serious about it, I shall consider the matter as absolutely settled. You will have a charming father-in-law, indeed, and of course he will be always at Pemberley with you.”

He listened to him with perfect indifference, while he chose to entertain himself in this manner; and as his composure convinced him that all was safe, his wit flowed along.
Mr. Bennet’s property consisted almost entirely in an estate of two thousand a year, which, unfortunately for his sons, was entailed, in default of heirs male, on a distant relation; and their father’s fortune, though ample for his situation in life, could but ill supply the deficiency of his. His father had been an attorney in Meryton, and had left him four thousand pounds.

He had a brother married to a Mr. Philips, who had been a clerk to their father and succeeded him in the business, and another brother settled in London in a respectable line of trade.

The village of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton; a most convenient distance for the young gentlemen, who were usually tempted thither three or four times a week, to pay their duty to their uncle, and to a tailor’s shop just over the way. The two youngest of the family, Christopher and Leonard, were particularly frequent in these attentions: their minds were more vacant than their brothers’, and when nothing better offered, a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their morning hours and furnish conversation for the evening; and, however bare of news the country in general might be, they always contrived to learn some from their uncle. At present, indeed, they were well supplied both with news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the neighbourhood; it was to remain the whole winter, and Meryton was the head-quarters.

Their visits to Mr. Philips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence. Every day added something to their knowledge of the officers’ names and connections. Their lodgings were not long a secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves. Mr. Philips visited them all, and this opened to his nephews a source of felicity unknown before. They could talk of nothing but officers; and Mr. Bingley’s large fortune, the mention of which gave animation to their father, was worthless in their eyes when opposed to the regimentals of an ensign.

After listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, Mr. Bennet coolly observed,--

“From all that I can collect by your manner of talking, you must be two of the silliest boys in the country. I have suspected it some time, but I am now convinced.”

Christopher was disconcerted, and made no answer; but Leonard, with perfect indifference, continued to express his admiration of Captain Carter, and his hope of seeing him in the course of the day, as he was going the next morning to London.

“I am astonished, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, “that you should be so ready to think your own children silly. If I wished to think slightingly of anybody’s children, it should not be of my own, however.”

“If my children are silly, I must hope to be always sensible of it.”

“Yes; but as it happens, they are all of them very clever.”

“This is the only point, I flatter myself, on which we do not agree. I had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but I must so far differ from you as to think our two youngest sons uncommonly foolish.”

“My dear Mr. Bennet, you must not expect such boys to have the sense of their father and father. When they get to our age, I dare say they will not think about officers any more than we do. I remember the time when I liked a red coat myself very well--and, indeed, so I do still at my heart; and if a smart young colonel, with five or six thousand a year, should want one of my boys, I shall not say nay to him; and I thought Colonel Forster looked very becoming the other night at Sir William’s in his regimentals.”

“Papa,” cried Leonard, “my uncle says that Colonel Forster and Captain Carter do not go so often to Mr. Watson’s as they did when they first came; he sees them now very often standing in Clarke’s library.”

Mr. Bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for Mr. Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer. Mr. Bennet’s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and he was eagerly calling out, while his son read,--

“Well, John, who is it from? What is it about? What does he say? Well, John, make haste and tell us; make haste, my friend.”

“It is from Mr. Bingley,” said John, and then read it aloud.

/* NIND “My dear friend, */

“If you are not so compassionate as to dine to-day with Louis and me, we shall be in danger of hating each other for the rest of our lives; for a whole day’s _tête-à-tête_ between two men can never end without a quarrel. Come as soon as you can on the receipt of this. My brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers. Yours ever,

“CARLTON BINGLEY.”

“With the officers!” cried Lionel: “I wonder my uncle did not tell us of _that_.”

“Dining out,” said Mr. Bennet; “that is very unlucky.”

“Can I have the carriage?” said John.

“No, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to rain; and then you must stay all night.”

“That would be a good scheme,” said Elliot, “if you were sure that they would not offer to send him home.”

“Oh, but the gentlemen will have Mr. Bingley’s chaise to go to Meryton; and the Hursts have no horses to theirs.”

“I had much rather go in the coach.”

“But, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, I am sure. They are wanted in the farm, Mr. Bennet, are not they?”

“They are wanted in the farm much oftener than I can get them.”

“But if you have got them to-day,” said Elliot, “my father’s purpose will be answered.”

He did at last extort from his father an acknowledgment that the horses were engaged; John was therefore obliged to go on horseback, and his father attended him to the door with many cheerful prognostics of a bad day. His hopes were answered; John had not been gone long before it rained hard. His brothers were uneasy for him, but his father was delighted. The rain continued the whole evening without intermission; John certainly could not come back.

“This was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!” said Mr. Bennet, more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all his own. Till the next morning, however, he was not aware of all the felicity of his contrivance. Breakfast was scarcely over when a servant from Netherfield brought the following note for Elliot:--

/* NIND “My dearest Elliot, */

“I find myself very unwell this morning, which, I suppose, is to be imputed to my getting wet through yesterday. My kind friends will not hear of my returning home till I am better. They insist also on my seeing Mr. Jones--therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me--and, excepting a sore throat and a headache, there is not much the matter with me.

“Yours, etc.”

“Well, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, when Elliot had read the note aloud, “if your son should have a dangerous fit of illness--if he should die--it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of Mr. Bingley, and under your orders.”

“Oh, I am not at all afraid of him dying. People do not die of little trifling colds. He will be taken good care of. As long as he stays there, it is all very well. I would go and see him if I could have the carriage.”

Elliot, feeling really anxious, determined to go to him, though the carriage was not to be had: and as he was no horseman, walking was his only alternative. He declared his resolution.

“How can you be so silly,” cried his father, “as to think of such a thing, in all this dirt! You will not be fit to be seen when you get there.”

“I shall be very fit to see John--which is all I want.”

“Is this a hint to me, Elliot,” said his father, “to send for the horses?”

“No, indeed. I do not wish to avoid the walk. The distance is nothing, when one has a motive; only three miles. I shall be back by dinner.”

“I admire the activity of your benevolence,” observed Martin, “but every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.”

“We will go as far as Meryton with you,” said Christopher and Leonard. Elliot accepted their company, and the three young gentlemen set off together.

“If we make haste,” said Leonard, as they walked along, “perhaps we may see something of Captain Carter, before he goes.”

In Meryton they parted: the two youngest repaired to the lodgings of one of the officers’ husbands, and Elliot continued his walk alone, crossing field after field at a quick pace, jumping over stiles and springing over puddles, with impatient activity, and finding himself at last within view of the house, with weary ankles, dirty stockings, and a face glowing with the warmth of exercise.

He was shown into the breakfast parlour, where all but John were assembled, and where his appearance created a great deal of surprise. That he should have walked three miles so early in the day in such dirty weather, and by himself, was almost incredible to Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley; and Elliot was convinced that they held him in contempt for it. He was received, however, very politely by them; and in their brother’s manners there was something better than politeness--there was good-humour and kindness. Mr. Darcy said very little, and Mr. Hurst nothing at all. The former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to his complexion and doubt as to the occasion’s justifying his coming so far alone. The latter was thinking only of his breakfast.

His inquiries after his brother were not very favourably answered. Mr. Bennet had slept ill, and though up, was very feverish, and not well enough to leave his room. Elliot was glad to be taken to him immediately; and John, who had only been withheld by the fear of giving alarm or inconvenience, from expressing in his note how much he longed for such a visit, was delighted at his entrance. He was not equal, however, to much conversation; and when Mr. Bingley left them together, could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness he was treated with. Elliot silently attended him.

When breakfast was over, they were joined by the brothers; and Elliot began to like them himself, when he saw how much affection and solicitude they showed for John. The apothecary came; and having examined his patient, said, as might be supposed, that he had caught a violent cold, and that they must endeavour to get the better of it; advised him to return to bed, and promised him some draughts. The advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and his head ached acutely. Elliot did not quit his room for a moment, nor were the other gentlemen often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact nothing to do elsewhere.

When the clock struck three, Elliot felt that he must go, and very unwillingly said so. Mr. Bingley offered him the carriage, and he only wanted a little pressing to accept it, when John testified such concern at parting with him that Mr. Bingley was obliged to convert the offer of the chaise into an invitation to remain at Netherfield for the present. Elliot most thankfully consented, and a servant was despatched to Longbourn, to acquaint the family with his stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.
At five o’clock the two gentlemen retired to dress, and at half-past six Elliot was summoned to dinner. To the civil inquiries which then poured in, and amongst which he had the pleasure of distinguishing the much superior solicitude of Mr. Bingley, he could not make a very favourable answer. John was by no means better. The brothers, on hearing this, repeated three or four times how much they were grieved, how shocking it was to have a bad cold, and how excessively they disliked being ill themselves; and then thought no more of the matter: and their indifference towards John, when not immediately before them, restored Elliot to the enjoyment of all his original dislike.

Their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom he could regard with any complacency. His anxiety for John was evident, and his attentions to himself most pleasing; and they prevented him feeling himself so much an intruder as he believed he was considered by the others. He had very little notice from any but him. Mr. Bingley was engrossed by Mr. Darcy, his brother scarcely less so; and as for Mr. Hurst, by whom Elliot sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to eat, drink, and play at cards, who, when he found him prefer a plain dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to him.

When dinner was over, he returned directly to John, and Mr. Bingley began abusing him as soon as he was out of the room. His manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed,--a mixture of pride and impertinence: he had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty. Mr. Hurst thought the same, and added,--

“He has nothing, in short, to recommend him, but being an excellent walker. I shall never forget his appearance this morning. He really looked almost wild.”

“He did indeed, Louis. I could hardly keep my countenance. Very nonsensical to come at all! Why must _he_ be scampering about the country, because his brother had a cold? His hair so untidy, so blowzy!”

“Yes, and his coat; I hope you saw his coat, six inches deep in mud, I am absolutely certain, and the jacket which had been let down to hide it not doing its office.”

“Your picture may be very exact, Louis,” said Bingley; “but this was all lost upon me. I thought Mr. Elliot Bennet looked remarkably well when he came into the room this morning. His dirty coat quite escaped my notice.”

“_You_ observed it, Mr. Darcy, I am sure,” said Mr. Bingley; “and I am inclined to think that you would not wish to see _your brother_ make such an exhibition.”

“Certainly not.”

“To walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is, above his ankles in dirt, and alone, quite alone! what could he mean by it? It seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence, a most country-town indifference to decorum.”

“It shows an affection for his brother that is very pleasing,” said Bingley.

“I am afraid, Mr. Darcy,” observed Mr. Bingley, in a half whisper, “that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of his fine eyes.”

“Not at all,” he replied: “they were brightened by the exercise.” A short pause followed this speech, and Mr. Hurst began again,--

“I have an excessive regard for John Bennet,--he is really a very sweet fellow,--and I wish with all my heart he were well settled. But with such a father and father, and such low connections, I am afraid there is no chance of it.”

“I think I have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in Meryton?”

“Yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near Cheapside.”

“That is capital,” added his brother; and they both laughed heartily.

“If they had uncles enough to fill _all_ Cheapside,” cried Bingley, “it would not make them one jot less agreeable.”

“But it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world,” replied Darcy.

To this speech Bingley made no answer; but his brothers gave it their hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of their dear friend’s vulgar relations.

With a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to his room on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with him till summoned to coffee. He was still very poorly, and Elliot would not quit him at all, till late in the evening, when he had the comfort of seeing him asleep, and when it appeared to him rather right than pleasant that he should go down stairs himself. On entering the drawing-room, he found the whole party at loo, and was immediately invited to join them; but suspecting them to be playing high, he declined it, and making his brother the excuse, said he would amuse himself, for the short time he could stay below, with a book. Mr. Hurst looked at him with astonishment.

“Do you prefer reading to cards?” said he; “that is rather singular.”

“Mr. Elliot Bennet,” said Mr. Bingley, “despises cards. He is a great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.”

“I deserve neither such praise nor such censure,” cried Elliot; “I am _not_ a great reader, and I have pleasure in many things.”

“In nursing your brother I am sure you have pleasure,” said Bingley; “and I hope it will soon be increased by seeing him quite well.”

Elliot thanked him from his heart, and then walked towards a table where a few books were lying. He immediately offered to fetch him others; all that his library afforded.

“And I wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit; but I am an idle fellow; and though I have not many, I have more than I ever looked into.”

Elliot assured him that he could suit himself perfectly with those in the room.

“I am astonished,” said Mr. Bingley, “that my father should have left so small a collection of books. What a delightful library you have at Pemberley, Mr. Darcy!”

“It ought to be good,” he replied: “it has been the work of many generations.”

“And then you have added so much to it yourself--you are always buying books.”

“I cannot comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these.”

“Neglect! I am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place. Charles, when you build _your_ house, I wish it may be half as delightful as Pemberley.”

“I wish it may.”

“But I would really advise you to make your purchase in that neighbourhood, and take Pemberley for a kind of model. There is not a finer county in England than Derbyshire.”

“With all my heart: I will buy Pemberley itself, if Darcy will sell it.”

“I am talking of possibilities, Charles.”

“Upon my word, Carl, I should think it more possible to get Pemberley by purchase than by imitation.”

Elliot was so much caught by what passed, as to leave him very little attention for his book; and, soon laying it wholly aside, he drew near the card-table, and stationed himself between Mr. Bingley and his eldest brother, to observe the game.

“Is Mr. Darcy much grown since the spring?” said Mr. Bingley: “will he be as tall as I am?”

“I think he will. He is now about Mr. Elliot Bennet’s height, or rather taller.”

“How I long to see him again! I never met with anybody who delighted me so much. Such a countenance, such manners, and so extremely accomplished for his age! His performance on the pianoforte is exquisite.”

“It is amazing to me,” said Bingley, “how young gentlemen can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are.”

“All young gentlemen accomplished! My dear Charles, what do you mean?”

“Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses. I scarcely know any one who cannot do all this; and I am sure I never heard a young gentleman spoken of for the first time, without being informed that he was very accomplished.”

“Your list of the common extent of accomplishments,” said Darcy, “has too much truth. The word is applied to many a man who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen; but I am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of gentlemen in general. I cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen in the whole range of my acquaintance that are really accomplished.”

“Nor I, I am sure,” said Mr. Bingley.

“Then,” observed Elliot, “you must comprehend a great deal in your idea of an accomplished man.”

“Yes; I do comprehend a great deal in it.”

“Oh, certainly,” cried his faithful assistant, “no one can be really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met with. A man must have a thorough knowledge of music, singing, drawing, dancing, and the modern languages, to deserve the word; and, besides all this, he must possess a certain something in his air and manner of walking, the tone of his voice, his address and expressions, or the word will be but half deserved.”

“All this he must possess,” added Darcy; “and to all he must yet add something more substantial in the improvement of his mind by extensive reading.”

“I am no longer surprised at your knowing _only_ six accomplished men. I rather wonder now at your knowing _any_.”

“Are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?”

“_I_ never saw such a man. _I_ never saw such capacity, and taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe, united.”

Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley both cried out against the injustice of his implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many men who answered this description, when Mr. Hurst called them to order, with bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward. As all conversation was thereby at an end, Elliot soon afterwards left the room.

“Elliot Bennet,” said Mr. Bingley, when the door was closed on him, “is one of those young gentlemen who seek to recommend themselves to the other sex by undervaluing their own; and with many men, I daresay, it succeeds; but, in my opinion, it is a paltry device, a very mean art.”

“Undoubtedly,” replied Darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed, “there is meanness in _all_ the arts which gentlemen sometimes condescend to employ for captivation. Whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable.”

Mr. Bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this reply as to continue the subject.

Elliot joined them again only to say that his brother was worse, and that he could not leave him. Bingley urged Mr. Jones’s being sent for immediately; while his brothers, convinced that no country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians. This he would not hear of; but he was not so unwilling to comply with their brother’s proposal; and it was settled that Mr. Jones should be sent for early in the morning, if Mr. Bennet were not decidedly better. Bingley was quite uncomfortable; his brothers declared that they were miserable. They solaced their wretchedness, however, by duets after supper; while he could find no better relief to his feelings than by giving his housekeeper directions that every possible attention might be paid to the sick gentleman and his brother.
Elliot passed the chief of the night in his brother’s room, and in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the inquiries which he very early received from Mr. Bingley by a houseman, and some time afterwards from the two elegant gentlemen who waited on his brothers. In spite of this amendment, however, he requested to have a note sent to Longbourn, desiring his father to visit John, and form his own judgment of his situation. The note was immediately despatched, and its contents as quickly complied with. Mr. Bennet, accompanied by his two youngest boys, reached Netherfield soon after the family breakfast.

Had he found John in any apparent danger, Mr. Bennet would have been very miserable; but being satisfied on seeing him that his illness was not alarming, he had no wish of him recovering immediately, as his restoration to health would probably remove him from Netherfield. He would not listen, therefore, to his son’s proposal of being carried home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all advisable. After sitting a little while with John, on Mr. Bingley’s appearance and invitation, the father and three sons all attended him into the breakfast parlour. Bingley met them with hopes that Mr. Bennet had not found Mr. Bennet worse than he expected.

“Indeed I have, sir,” was his answer. “He is a great deal too ill to be moved. Mr. Jones says we must not think of moving him. We must trespass a little longer on your kindness.”

“Removed!” cried Bingley. “It must not be thought of. My brother, I am sure, will not hear of his removal.”

“You may depend upon it, sir,” said Mr. Bingley, with cold civility, “that Mr. Bennet shall receive every possible attention while he remains with us.”

Mr. Bennet was profuse in his acknowledgments.

“I am sure,” he added, “if it was not for such good friends, I do not know what would become of him, for he is very ill indeed, and suffers a vast deal, though with the greatest patience in the world, which is always the way with him, for he has, without exception, the sweetest temper I ever met with. I often tell my other boys they are nothing to _him_. You have a sweet room here, Mr. Bingley, and a charming prospect over that gravel walk. I do not know a place in the country that is equal to Netherfield. You will not think of quitting it in a hurry, I hope, though you have but a short lease.”

“Whatever I do is done in a hurry,” replied he; “and therefore if I should resolve to quit Netherfield, I should probably be off in five minutes. At present, however, I consider myself as quite fixed here.”

“That is exactly what I should have supposed of you,” said Elliot.

“You begin to comprehend me, do you?” cried he, turning towards him.

“Oh yes--I understand you perfectly.”

“I wish I might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through, I am afraid, is pitiful.”

“That is as it happens. It does not necessarily follow that a deep, intricate character is more or less estimable than such a one as yours.”

“Elliot,” cried his father, “remember where you are, and do not run on in the wild manner that you are suffered to do at home.”

“I did not know before,” continued Bingley, immediately, “that you were a studier of character. It must be an amusing study.”

“Yes; but intricate characters are the _most_ amusing. They have at least that advantage.”

“The country,” said Darcy, “can in general supply but few subjects for such a study. In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and unvarying society.”

“But people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in them for ever.”

“Yes, indeed,” cried Mr. Bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood. “I assure you there is quite as much of _that_ going on in the country as in town.”

Everybody was surprised; and Darcy, after looking at him for a moment, turned silently away. Mr. Bennet, who fancied he had gained a complete victory over him, continued his triumph,--

“I cannot see that London has any great advantage over the country, for my part, except the shops and public places. The country is a vast deal pleasanter, is not it, Mr. Bingley?”

“When I am in the country,” he replied, “I never wish to leave it; and when I am in town, it is pretty much the same. They have each their advantages, and I can be equally happy in either.”

“Ay, that is because you have the right disposition. But that gentleman,” looking at Darcy, “seemed to think the country was nothing at all.”

“Indeed, father, you are mistaken,” said Elliot, blushing for his father. “You quite mistook Mr. Darcy. He only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.”

“Certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with many people in this neighbourhood, I believe there are few neighbourhoods larger. I know we dine with four-and-twenty families.”

Nothing but concern for Elliot could enable Bingley to keep his countenance. His brother was less delicate, and directed his eye towards Mr. Darcy with a very expressive smile. Elliot, for the sake of saying something that might turn his father’s thoughts, now asked him if Charles Lucas had been at Longbourn since _his_ coming away.

“Yes, he called yesterday with his father. What an agreeable man Sir William is, Mr. Bingley--is not he? so much the man of fashion! so genteel and so easy! He has always something to say to everybody. _That_ is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very important and never open their mouths quite mistake the matter.”

“Did Charles dine with you?”

“No, he would go home. I fancy he was wanted about the mince-pies. For my part, Mr. Bingley, _I_ always keep servants that can do their own work; _my_ sons are brought up differently. But everybody is to judge for themselves, and the Lucases are a very good sort of boys, I assure you. It is a pity they are not handsome! Not that _I_ think Charles so _very_ plain; but then he is our particular friend.”

“He seems a very pleasant young man,” said Bingley.

“Oh dear, yes; but you must own he is very plain. Mr. Lucas himself has often said so, and envied me John’s beauty. I do not like to boast of my own child; but to be sure, John--one does not often see anybody better looking. It is what everybody says. I do not trust my own partiality. When he was only fifteen there was a gentleman at my brother Gardiner’s in town so much in love with him, that my brother-in-law was sure he would make him an offer before we came away. But, however, he did not. Perhaps he thought him too young. However, he wrote some verses on him, and very pretty they were.”

“And so ended his affection,” said Elliot, impatiently. “There has been many a one, I fancy, overcome in the same way. I wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!”

“I have been used to consider poetry as the _food_ of love,” said Darcy.

“Of a fine, stout, healthy love it may. Everything nourishes what is strong already. But if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, I am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away.”

Darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made Elliot tremble lest his father should be exposing himself again. He longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence Mr. Bennet began repeating his thanks to Mr. Bingley for his kindness to John, with an apology for troubling him also with Elliot. Mr. Bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger brother to be civil also, and say what the occasion required. He performed his part, indeed, without much graciousness, but Mr. Bennet was satisfied, and soon afterwards ordered his carriage. Upon this signal, the youngest of his sons put himself forward. The two boys had been whispering to each other during the whole visit; and the result of it was, that the youngest should tax Mr. Bingley with having promised on his first coming into the country to give a ball at Netherfield.

Laurence was a stout, well-grown boy of fifteen, with a fine complexion and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with his father, whose affection had brought him into public at an early age. He had high animal spirits, and a sort of natural self-consequence, which the attentions of the officers, to whom his uncle’s good dinners and his own easy manners recommended him, had increased into assurance. He was very equal, therefore, to address Mr. Bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it. His answer to this sudden attack was delightful to his father’s ear.

“I am perfectly ready, I assure you, to keep my engagement; and, when your brother is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of the ball. But you would not wish to be dancing while he is ill?”

Lyndon declared himself satisfied. “Oh yes--it would be much better to wait till John was well; and by that time, most likely, Captain Carter would be at Meryton again. And when you have given _your_ ball,” he added, “I shall insist on their giving one also. I shall tell Colonel Forster it will be quite a shame if he does not.”

Mr. Bennet and his sons then departed, and Elliot returned instantly to John, leaving his own and his relations’ behaviour to the remarks of the two gentlemen and Mr. Darcy; the latter of whom, however, could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of _him_, in spite of all Mr. Bingley’s witticisms on _fine eyes_.
The day passed much as the day before had done. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who continued, though slowly, to mend; and, in the evening, Elliot joined their party in the drawing-room. The loo table, however, did not appear. Mr. Darcy was writing, and Mr. Bingley, seated near him, was watching the progress of his letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his brother. Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley were at piquet, and Mr. Hurst was observing their game.

Elliot took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between Darcy and his companion. The perpetual commendations of the gentleman either on his hand-writing, or on the evenness of his lines, or on the length of his letter, with the perfect unconcern with which his praises were received, formed a curious dialogue, and was exactly in unison with his opinion of each.

“How delighted Mr. Darcy will be to receive such a letter!”

He made no answer.

“You write uncommonly fast.”

“You are mistaken. I write rather slowly.”

“How many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a year! Letters of business, too! How odious I should think them!”

“It is fortunate, then, that they fall to my lot instead of to yours.”

“Pray tell your brother that I long to see him.”

“I have already told him so once, by your desire.”

“I am afraid you do not like your pen. Let me mend it for you. I mend pens remarkably well.”

“Thank you--but I always mend my own.”

“How can you contrive to write so even?”

He was silent.

“Tell your brother I am delighted to hear of his improvement on the harp, and pray let him know that I am quite in raptures with his beautiful little design for a table, and I think it infinitely superior to Mr. Grantley’s.”

“Will you give me leave to defer your raptures till I write again? At present I have not room to do them justice.”

“Oh, it is of no consequence. I shall see him in January. But do you always write such charming long letters to him, Mr. Darcy?”

“They are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me to determine.”

“It is a rule with me, that a person who can write a long letter with ease cannot write ill.”

“That will not do for a compliment to Darcy, Charles,” cried his brother, “because he does _not_ write with ease. He studies too much for words of four syllables. Do not you, Darcy?”

“My style of writing is very different from yours.”

“Oh,” cried Mr. Bingley, “Charles writes in the most careless way imaginable. He leaves out half his words, and blots the rest.”

“My ideas flow so rapidly that I have not time to express them; by which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.”

“Your humility, Mr. Bingley,” said Elliot, “must disarm reproof.”

“Nothing is more deceitful,” said Darcy, “than the appearance of humility. It is often only carelessness of opinion, and sometimes an indirect boast.”

“And which of the two do you call _my_ little recent piece of modesty?”

“The indirect boast; for you are really proud of your defects in writing, because you consider them as proceeding from a rapidity of thought and carelessness of execution, which, if not estimable, you think at least highly interesting. The power of doing anything with quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance. When you told Mr. Bennet this morning, that if you ever resolved on quitting Netherfield you should be gone in five minutes, you meant it to be a sort of panegyric, of compliment to yourself; and yet what is there so very laudable in a precipitance which must leave very necessary business undone, and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else?”

“Nay,” cried Bingley, “this is too much, to remember at night all the foolish things that were said in the morning. And yet, upon my honour, I believed what I said of myself to be true, and I believe it at this moment. At least, therefore, I did not assume the character of needless precipitance merely to show off before the gentlemen.”

“I daresay you believed it; but I am by no means convinced that you would be gone with such celerity. Your conduct would be quite as dependent on chance as that of any man I know; and if, as you were mounting your horse, a friend were to say, ‘Bingley, you had better stay till next week,’ you would probably do it--you would probably not go--and, at another word, might stay a month.”

“You have only proved by this,” cried Elliot, “that Mr. Bingley did not do justice to his own disposition. You have shown him off now much more than he did himself.”

“I am exceedingly gratified,” said Bingley, “by your converting what my friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper. But I am afraid you are giving it a turn which that gentleman did by no means intend; for he would certainly think the better of me if, under such a circumstance, I were to give a flat denial, and ride off as fast as I could.”

“Would Mr. Darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?”

“Upon my word, I cannot exactly explain the matter--Darcy must speak for himself.”

“You expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine, but which I have never acknowledged. Allowing the case, however, to stand according to your representation, you must remember, Mr. Bennet, that the friend who is supposed to desire his return to the house, and the delay of his plan, has merely desired it, asked it without offering one argument in favour of its propriety.”

“To yield readily--easily--to the _persuasion_ of a friend is no merit with you.”

“To yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either.”

“You appear to me, Mr. Darcy, to allow nothing for the influence of friendship and affection. A regard for the requester would often make one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason one into it. I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about Mr. Bingley. We may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon. But in general and ordinary cases, between friend and friend, where one of them is desired by the other to change a resolution of no very great moment, should you think ill of that person for complying with the desire, without waiting to be argued into it?”

“Will it not be advisable, before we proceed on this subject, to arrange with rather more precision the degree of importance which is to appertain to this request, as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting between the parties?”

“By all means,” cried Bingley; “let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting their comparative height and size, for that will have more weight in the argument, Mr. Bennet, than you may be aware of. I assure you that if Darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with myself, I should not pay him half so much deference. I declare I do not know a more awful object than Darcy on particular occasions, and in particular places; at his own house especially, and of a Sunday evening, when he has nothing to do.”

Mr. Darcy smiled; but Elliot thought he could perceive that he was rather offended, and therefore checked his laugh. Mr. Bingley warmly resented the indignity he had received, in an expostulation with his brother for talking such nonsense.

“I see your design, Bingley,” said his friend. “You dislike an argument, and want to silence this.”

“Perhaps I do. Arguments are too much like disputes. If you and Mr. Bennet will defer yours till I am out of the room, I shall be very thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.”

“What you ask,” said Elliot, “is no sacrifice on my side; and Mr. Darcy had much better finish his letter.”

Mr. Darcy took his advice, and did finish his letter.

When that business was over, he applied to Mr. Bingley and Elliot for the indulgence of some music. Mr. Bingley moved with alacrity to the pianoforte, and after a polite request that Elliot would lead the way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, he seated himself.

Mr. Hurst sang with his brother; and while they were thus employed, Elliot could not help observing, as he turned over some music-books that lay on the instrument, how frequently Mr. Darcy’s eyes were fixed on him. He hardly knew how to suppose that he could be an object of admiration to so great a man, and yet that he should look at him because he disliked him was still more strange. He could only imagine, however, at last, that he drew his notice because there was something about him more wrong and reprehensible, according to his ideas of right, than in any other person present. The supposition did not pain him. He liked him too little to care for his approbation.

After playing some Italian songs, Mr. Bingley varied the charm by a lively Scotch air; and soon afterwards Mr. Darcy, drawing near Elliot, said to him,--

“Do you not feel a great inclination, Mr. Bennet, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel?”

He smiled, but made no answer. He repeated the question, with some surprise at his silence.

“Oh,” said he, “I heard you before; but I could not immediately determine what to say in reply. You wanted me, I know, to say ‘Yes,’ that you might have the pleasure of despising my taste; but I always delight in overthrowing those kind of schemes, and cheating a person of their premeditated contempt. I have, therefore, made up my mind to tell you that I do not want to dance a reel at all; and now despise me if you dare.”

“Indeed I do not dare.”

Elliot, having rather expected to affront him, was amazed at his gallantry; but there was a mixture of sweetness and archness in his manner which made it difficult for him to affront anybody, and Darcy had never been so bewitched by any man as he was by him. He really believed that, were it not for the inferiority of his connections, he should be in some danger.

Mr. Bingley saw, or suspected, enough to be jealous; and his great anxiety for the recovery of his dear friend John received some assistance from his desire of getting rid of Elliot.

He often tried to provoke Darcy into disliking his guest, by talking of their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.

“I hope,” said he, as they were walking together in the shrubbery the next day, “you will give your father-in-law a few hints, when this desirable event takes place, as to the advantage of holding his tongue; and if you can compass it, to cure the younger boys of running after the officers. And, if I may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence, which your gentleman possesses.”

“Have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?”

“Oh yes. Do let the portraits of your uncle Philips be placed in the gallery at Pemberley. Put them next to your great-uncle the judge. They are in the same profession, you know, only in different lines. As for your Elliot’s picture, you must not attempt to have it taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?”

“It would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression; but their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be copied.”

At that moment they were met from another walk by Mr. Hurst and Elliot himself.

“I did not know that you intended to walk,” said Mr. Bingley, in some confusion, lest they had been overheard.

“You used us abominably ill,” answered Mr. Hurst, “running away without telling us that you were coming out.”

Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. Darcy, he left Elliot to walk by himself. The path just admitted three. Mr. Darcy felt their rudeness, and immediately said,--

“This walk is not wide enough for our party. We had better go into the avenue.”

But Elliot, who had not the least inclination to remain with them, laughingly answered,--

“No, no; stay where you are. You are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage. The picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth. Good-bye.”

He then ran gaily off, rejoicing, as he rambled about, in the hope of being at home again in a day or two. John was already so much recovered as to intend leaving his room for a couple of hours that evening.
When the gentlemen removed after dinner Elliot ran up to his brother, and seeing him well guarded from cold, attended him into the drawing-room, where he was welcomed by his two friends with many professions of pleasure; and Elliot had never seen them so agreeable as they were during the hour which passed before the other gentlemen appeared. Their powers of conversation were considerable. They could describe an entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at their acquaintance with spirit.

But when the gentlemen entered, John was no longer the first object; Mr. Bingley’s eyes were instantly turned towards Darcy, and he had something to say to him before he had advanced many steps. He addressed himself directly to Mr. Bennet with a polite congratulation; Mr. Hurst also made him a slight bow, and said he was “very glad;” but diffuseness and warmth remained for Bingley’s salutation. He was full of joy and attention. The first half hour was spent in piling up the fire, lest he should suffer from the change of room; and he removed, at his desire, to the other side of the fireplace, that he might be farther from the door. He then sat down by him, and talked scarcely to anyone else. Elliot, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great delight.

When tea was over Mr. Hurst reminded his brother-in-law of the card-table--but in vain. He had obtained private intelligence that Mr. Darcy did not wish for cards, and Mr. Hurst soon found even his open petition rejected. He assured him that no one intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify him. Mr. Hurst had, therefore, nothing to do but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep. Darcy took up a book. Mr. Bingley did the same; and Mr. Hurst, principally occupied in playing with his bracelets and rings, joined now and then in his brother’s conversation with Mr. Bennet.

Mr. Bingley’s attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mr. Darcy’s progress through his book, as in reading his own; and he was perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page. He could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered his question and read on. At length, quite exhausted by the attempt to be amused with his own book, which he had only chosen because it was the second volume of his, he gave a great yawn and said, “How pleasant it is to spend an evening in this way! I declare, after all, there is no enjoyment like reading! How much sooner one tires of anything than of a book! When I have a house of my own, I shall be miserable if I have not an excellent library.”

No one made any reply. He then yawned again, threw aside his book, and cast his eyes round the room in quest of some amusement; when, hearing his brother mentioning a ball to Mr. Bennet, he turned suddenly towards him and said,--

“By the bye Charles, are you really serious in meditating a dance at Netherfield? I would advise you, before you determine on it, to consult the wishes of the present party; I am much mistaken if there are not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a punishment than a pleasure.”

“If you mean Darcy,” cried his brother, “he may go to bed, if he chooses, before it begins; but as for the ball, it is quite a settled thing, and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough I shall send round my cards.”

“I should like balls infinitely better,” he replied, “if they were carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting. It would surely be much more rational if conversation instead of dancing made the order of the day.”

“Much more rational, my dear Charles, I dare say; but it would not be near so much like a ball.”

Mr. Bingley made no answer, and soon afterwards got up and walked about the room. His figure was elegant, and he walked well; but Darcy, at whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious. In the desperation of his feelings, he resolved on one effort more; and, turning to Elliot, said,--

“Mr. Elliot Bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a turn about the room. I assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so long in one attitude.”

Elliot was surprised, but agreed to it immediately. Mr. Bingley succeeded no less in the real object of his civility: Mr. Darcy looked up. He was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as Elliot himself could be, and unconsciously closed his book. He was directly invited to join their party, but he declined it, observing that he could imagine but two motives for their choosing to walk up and down the room together, with either of which motives his joining them would interfere. What could he mean? He was dying to know what could be his meaning--and asked Elliot whether he could at all understand him.

“Not at all,” was his answer; “but, depend upon it, he means to be severe on us, and our surest way of disappointing him will be to ask nothing about it.”

Mr. Bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing Mr. Darcy in anything, and persevered, therefore, in requiring an explanation of his two motives.

“I have not the smallest objection to explaining them,” said he, as soon as he allowed him to speak. “You either choose this method of passing the evening because you are in each other’s confidence, and have secret affairs to discuss, or because you are conscious that your figures appear to the greatest advantage in walking: if the first, I should be completely in your way; and if the second, I can admire you much better as I sit by the fire.”

“Oh, shocking!” cried Mr. Bingley. “I never heard anything so abominable. How shall we punish him for such a speech?”

“Nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination,” said Elliot. “We can all plague and punish one another. Tease him--laugh at him. Intimate as you are, you must know how it is to be done.”

“But upon my honour I do _not_. I do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me _that_. Tease calmness of temper and presence of mind! No, no; I feel he may defy us there. And as to laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject. Mr. Darcy may hug himself.”

“Mr. Darcy is not to be laughed at!” cried Elliot. “That is an uncommon advantage, and uncommon I hope it will continue, for it would be a great loss to _me_ to have many such acquaintance. I dearly love a laugh.”

“Mr. Bingley,” said he, “has given me credit for more than can be. The wisest and best of men,--nay, the wisest and best of their actions,--may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke.”

“Certainly,” replied Elliot, “there are such people, but I hope I am not one of _them_. I hope I never ridicule what is wise or good. Follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, _do_ divert me, I own, and I laugh at them whenever I can. But these, I suppose, are precisely what you are without.”

“Perhaps that is not possible for anyone. But it has been the study of my life to avoid those weaknesses which often expose a strong understanding to ridicule.”

“Such as vanity and pride.”

“Yes, vanity is a weakness indeed. But pride--where there is a real superiority of mind--pride will be always under good regulation.”

Elliot turned away to hide a smile.

“Your examination of Mr. Darcy is over, I presume,” said Mr. Bingley; “and pray what is the result?”

“I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr. Darcy has no defect. He owns it himself without disguise.”

“No,” said Darcy, “I have made no such pretension. I have faults enough, but they are not, I hope, of understanding. My temper I dare not vouch for. It is, I believe, too little yielding; certainly too little for the convenience of the world. I cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as I ought, nor their offences against myself. My feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them. My temper would perhaps be called resentful. My good opinion once lost is lost for ever.”

“_That_ is a failing, indeed!” cried Elliot. “Implacable resentment _is_ a shade in a character. But you have chosen your fault well. I really cannot _laugh_ at it. You are safe from me.”

“There is, I believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.”

“And _your_ defect is a propensity to hate everybody.”

“And yours,” he replied, with a smile, “is wilfully to misunderstand them.”

“Do let us have a little music,” cried Mr. Bingley, tired of a conversation in which he had no share. “Louis, you will not mind my waking Mr. Hurst.”

His brother made not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was opened; and Darcy, after a few moments’ recollection, was not sorry for it. He began to feel the danger of paying Elliot too much attention.
In consequence of an agreement between the brothers, Elliot wrote the next morning to his father, to beg that the carriage might be sent for them in the course of the day. But Mr. Bennet, who had calculated on his sons remaining at Netherfield till the following Tuesday, which would exactly finish John’s week, could not bring himself to receive them with pleasure before. His answer, therefore, was not propitious, at least not to Elliot’s wishes, for he was impatient to get home. Mr. Bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage before Tuesday; and in his postscript it was added, that if Mr. Bingley and his brother pressed them to stay longer, he could spare them very well. Against staying longer, however, Elliot was positively resolved--nor did he much expect it would be asked; and fearful, on the contrary, of being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long, he urged John to borrow Mr. Bingley’s carriage immediately, and at length it was settled that their original design of leaving Netherfield that morning should be mentioned, and the request made.

The communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work on John; and till the morrow their going was deferred. Mr. Bingley was then sorry that he had proposed the delay; for his jealousy and dislike of one brother much exceeded his affection for the other.

The master of the house heard with real sorrow that they were to go so soon, and repeatedly tried to persuade Mr. Bennet that it would not be safe for him--that he was not enough recovered; but John was firm where he felt himself to be right.

To Mr. Darcy it was welcome intelligence: Elliot had been at Netherfield long enough. He attracted him more than he liked; and Mr. Bingley was uncivil to him and more teasing than usual to himself. He wisely resolved to be particularly careful that no sign of admiration should now escape him--nothing that could elevate him with the hope of influencing his felicity; sensible that, if such an idea had been suggested, his behaviour during the last day must have material weight in confirming or crushing it. Steady to his purpose, he scarcely spoke ten words to him through the whole of Saturday: and though they were at one time left by themselves for half an hour, he adhered most conscientiously to his book, and would not even look at him.

On Sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost all, took place. Mr. Bingley’s civility to Elliot increased at last very rapidly, as well as his affection for John; and when they parted, after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give him to see him either at Longbourn or Netherfield, and embracing him most tenderly, he even shook hands with the former. Elliot took leave of the whole party in the liveliest spirits.

They were not welcomed home very cordially by their father. Mr. Bennet wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble, and was sure John would have caught cold again. But their father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle. The evening conversation, when they were all assembled, had lost much of its animation, and almost all its sense, by the absence of John and Elliot.

They found Martin, as usual, deep in the study of thorough bass and human
“I hope, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet to his husband, as they were at breakfast the next morning, “that you have ordered a good dinner to-day, because I have reason to expect an addition to our family party.”

“Who do you mean, my dear? I know of nobody that is coming, I am sure, unless Mr. Charles Lucas should happen to call in; and I hope _my_ dinners are good enough for him. I do not believe he often sees such at home.”

“The person of whom I speak is a gentleman and a stranger.”

Mr. Bennet’s eyes sparkled. “A gentleman and a stranger! It is Mr. Bingley, I am sure. Why, Mr. John--you never dropped a word of this--you sly thing! Well, I am sure I shall be extremely glad to see Mr. Bingley. But--good Lord! how unlucky! there is not a bit of fish to be got to-day. Mr. Lionel, my love, ring the bell. I must speak to Mr. Hill this moment.”

“It is _not_ Mr. Bingley,” said his husband; “it is a person whom I never saw in the whole course of my life.”

This roused a general astonishment; and he had the pleasure of being eagerly questioned by his husband and five sons at once.

After amusing himself some time with their curiosity, he thus explained:--“About a month ago I received this letter, and about a fortnight ago I answered it; for I thought it a case of some delicacy, and requiring early attention. It is from my cousin, Mr. Collins, who, when I am dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases.”

“Oh, my dear,” cried his husband, “I cannot bear to hear that mentioned. Pray do not talk of that odious man. I do think it is the hardest thing in the world, that your estate should be entailed away from your own children; and I am sure, if I had been you, I should have tried long ago to do something or other about it.”

Mr. John and Mr. Elliot attempted to explain to him the nature of an entail. They had often attempted it before: but it was a subject on which Mr. Bennet was beyond the reach of reason; and he continued to rail bitterly against the cruelty of settling an estate away from a family of five sons, in favour of a man whom nobody cared anything about.

“It certainly is a most iniquitous affair,” said Mr. Bennet; “and nothing can clear Mr. Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn. But if you will listen to his letter, you may, perhaps, be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself.”

“No, that I am sure I shall not: and I think it was very impertinent of him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical. I hate such false friends. Why could not he keep on quarrelling with you, as his father did before him?”

“Why, indeed, he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head, as you will hear.”

/* RIGHT “Hunsford, near Westerham, Kent, _15th October_. */

“Dear Sir,

“The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured father always gave me much uneasiness; and, since I have had the misfortune to lose him, I have frequently wished to heal the breach: but, for some time, I was kept back by my own doubts, fearing lest it might seem disrespectful to his memory for me to be on good terms with anyone with whom it had always pleased him to be at variance.”--‘There, Mr. Bennet.’--“My mind, however, is now made up on the subject; for, having received ordination at Easter, I have been so fortunate as to be distinguished by the patronage of the Right Honourable Mr. Catherine de Bourgh, widower of Mr. Lewis de Bourgh, whose bounty and beneficence has preferred me to the valuable rectory of this parish, where it shall be my earnest endeavour to demean myself with grateful respect towards his Lordship, and be ever ready to perform those rites and ceremonies which are instituted by the Church of England. As a clergyman, moreover, I feel it my duty to promote and establish the blessing of peace in all families within the reach of my influence; and on these grounds I flatter myself that my present overtures of good-will are highly commendable, and that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of Longbourn estate will be kindly overlooked on your side, and not lead you to reject the offered olive branch. I cannot be otherwise than concerned at being the means of injuring your amiable sons, and beg leave to apologize for it, as well as to assure you of my readiness to make them every possible amends; but of this hereafter. If you should have no objection to receive me into your house, I propose myself the satisfaction of waiting on you and your family, Monday, November 18th, by four o’clock, and shall probably trespass on your hospitality till the Saturday se’nnight following, which I can do without any inconvenience, as Mr. Catherine is far from objecting to my occasional absence on a Sunday, provided that some other clergyman is engaged to do the duty of the day. I remain, dear sir, with respectful compliments to your gentleman and sons, your well-wisher and friend,

“WILLIAM COLLINS.”

“At four o’clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman,” said Mr. Bennet, as he folded up the letter. “He seems to be a most conscientious and polite young man, upon my word; and, I doubt not, will prove a valuable acquaintance, especially if Mr. Catherine should be so indulgent as to let him come to us again.”

“There is some sense in what he says about the boys, however; and, if he is disposed to make them any amends, I shall not be the person to discourage him.”

“Though it is difficult,” said John, “to guess in what way he can mean to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his credit.”

Elliot was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for Mr. Catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying his parishioners whenever it were required.

“He must be an oddity, I think,” said he. “I cannot make him out. There is something very pompous in his style. And what can he mean by apologizing for being next in the entail? We cannot suppose he would help it, if he could. Can he be a sensible man, sir?”

“No, my dear; I think not. I have great hopes of finding him quite the reverse. There is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his letter which promises well. I am impatient to see him.”

“In point of composition,” said Martin, “his letter does not seem defective. The idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet I think it is well expressed.”

To Christopher and Leonard neither the letter nor its writer were in any degree interesting. It was next to impossible that their cousin should come in a scarlet coat, and it was now some weeks since they had received pleasure from the society of a man in any other colour. As for their father, Mr. Collins’s letter had done away much of his ill-will, and he was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which astonished his husband and sons.

Mr. Collins was punctual to his time, and was received with great politeness by the whole family. Mr. Bennet indeed said little; but the gentlemen were ready enough to talk, and Mr. Collins seemed neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself. He was a tall, heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty. His air was grave and stately, and his manners were very formal. He had not been long seated before he complimented Mr. Bennet on having so fine a family of sons, said he had heard much of their beauty, but that, in this instance, fame had fallen short of the truth; and added, that he did not doubt his seeing them all in due time well disposed of in marriage. This gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but Mr. Bennet, who quarrelled with no compliments, answered most readily,--

“You are very kind, sir, I am sure; and I wish with all my heart it may prove so; for else they will be destitute enough. Things are settled so oddly.”

“You allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.”

“Ah, sir, I do indeed. It is a grievous affair to my poor boys, you must confess. Not that I mean to find fault with _you_, for such things, I know, are all chance in this world. There is no knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entailed.”

“I am very sensible, sir, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that I am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate. But I can assure the young gentlemen that I come prepared to admire them. At present I will not say more, but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted----”

He was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the boys smiled on each other. They were not the only objects of Mr. Collins’s admiration. The hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything would have touched Mr. Bennet’s heart, but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his own future property. The dinner, too, in its turn, was highly admired; and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellence of its cookery was owing. But here he was set right by Mr. Bennet, who assured him, with some asperity, that they were very well able to keep a good cook, and that his sons had nothing to do in the kitchen. He begged pardon for having displeased him. In a softened tone he declared himself not at all offended; but he continued to apologize for about a quarter of an hour.
During dinner, Mr. Bennet scarcely spoke at all; but when the servants were withdrawn, he thought it time to have some conversation with his guest, and therefore started a subject in which he expected him to shine, by observing that he seemed very fortunate in his patron. Mr. Christopher de Bourgh’s attention to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very remarkable. Mr. Bennet could not have chosen better. Mr. Collins was eloquent in his praise. The subject elevated him to more than usual solemnity of manner; and with a most important aspect he protested that he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in a person of rank--such affability and condescension, as he had himself experienced from Mr. Christopher. He had been graciously pleased to approve of both the discourses which he had already had the honour of preaching before him. He had also asked him twice to dine at Rosings, and had sent for him only the Saturday before, to make up his pool of quadrille in the evening. Mr. Christopher was reckoned proud by many people, he knew, but _he_ had never seen anything but affability in him. He had always spoken to him as he would to any other gentleman; he made not the smallest objection to his joining in the society of the neighbourhood, nor to his leaving his parish occasionally for a week or two to visit his relations. He had even condescended to advise him to marry as soon as he could, provided he chose with discretion; and had once paid him a visit in his humble parsonage, where he had perfectly approved all the alterations he had been making, and had even vouchsafed to suggest some himself,--some shelves in the closets upstairs.

“That is all very proper and civil, I am sure,” said Mr. Bennet, “and I dare say he is a very agreeable man. It is a pity that great gentlemen in general are not more like him. Does he live near you, sir?”

“The garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from Rosings Park, his residence.”

“I think you said he was a widower, sir? has he any family?”

“He has one only son, the heir of Rosings, and of very extensive property.”

“Ah,” cried Mr. Bennet, shaking his head, “then he is better off than many boys. And what sort of young gentleman is he? Is he handsome?”

“He is a most charming young gentleman, indeed. Mr. Christopher himself says that, in point of true beauty, Mr. de Bourgh is far superior to the handsomest of his sex; because there is that in his features which marks the young man of distinguished birth. He is unfortunately of a sickly constitution, which has prevented him making that progress in many accomplishments which he could not otherwise have failed of, as I am informed by the gentleman who superintended his education, and who still resides with them. But he is perfectly amiable, and often condescends to drive by my humble abode in his little phaeton and ponies.”

“Has he been presented? I do not remember his name among the gentlemen at court.”

“His indifferent state of health unhappily prevents him being in town; and by that means, as I told Mr. Christopher myself one day, has deprived the British Court of its brightest ornament. His Honour seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that I am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to gentlemen. I have more than once observed to Mr. Christopher, that his charming son seemed born to be a duke; and that the most elevated rank, instead of giving him consequence, would be adorned by him. These are the kind of little things which please his Honour, and it is a sort of attention which I conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay.”

“You judge very properly,” said Mr. Bennet; “and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy. May I ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the result of previous study?”

“They arise chiefly from what is passing at the time; and though I sometimes amuse myself with suggesting and arranging such little elegant compliments as may be adapted to ordinary occasions, I always wish to give them as unstudied an air as possible.”

Mr. Bennet’s expectations were fully answered. His cousin was as absurd as he had hoped; and he listened to him with the keenest enjoyment, maintaining at the same time the most resolute composure of countenance, and, except in an occasional glance at Elliot, requiring no partner in his pleasure.

By tea-time, however, the dose had been enough, and Mr. Bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and when tea was over, glad to invite him

to read aloud to the gentlemen. Mr. Collins readily assented, and a book was produced; but on beholding it (for everything announced it to be from a circulating library) he started back, and, begging pardon, protested that he never read novels. Kit stared at him, and Lionel exclaimed. Other books were produced, and after some deliberation he chose “Fordyce’s Sermons.” Lionel gaped as he opened the volume; and before he had, with very monotonous solemnity, read three pages, he interrupted him with,--

“Do you know, papa, that my uncle Philips talks of turning away Richard? and if he does, Colonel Forster will hire him. My uncle told me so himself on Saturday. I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow to hear more about it, and to ask when Mr. Denny comes back from town.”

Lionel was bid by his two eldest brothers to hold his tongue; but Mr. Collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said,--

“I have often observed how little young gentlemen are interested by books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit. It amazes me, I confess; for certainly there can be nothing so advantageous to them as instruction. But I will no longer importune my young cousin.”

Then, turning to Mr. Bennet, he offered himself as his antagonist at backgammon. Mr. Bennet accepted the challenge, observing that he acted very wisely in leaving the boys to their own trifling amusements. Mr. Bennet and his sons apologized most civilly for Lionel’s interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if he would resume his book; but Mr. Collins, after assuring them that he bore his young cousin no ill-will, and should never resent his behaviour as any affront, seated himself at another table with Mr. Bennet, and prepared for backgammon.
Mr. Collins was not a sensible man, and the deficiency of nature had been but little assisted by education or society; the greatest part of his life having been spent under the guidance of an illiterate and miserly father; and though he belonged to one of the universities, he had merely kept the necessary terms without forming at it any useful acquaintance. The subjection in which his father had brought him up had given him originally great humility of manner; but it was now a good deal counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak head, living in retirement, and the consequential feelings of early and unexpected prosperity. A fortunate chance had recommended him to Mr. Catherine de Bourgh when the living of Hunsford was vacant; and the respect which he felt for his high rank, and his veneration for him as his patron, mingling with a very good opinion of himself, of his authority as a clergyman, and his right as a rector, made him altogether a mixture of pride and obsequiousness, self-importance and humility.

Having now a good house and a very sufficient income, he intended to marry; and in seeking a reconciliation with the Longbourn family he had a husband in view, as he meant to choose one of the sons, if he found them as handsome and amiable as they were represented by common report. This was his plan of amends--of atonement--for inheriting their father’s estate; and he thought it an excellent one, full of eligibility and suitableness, and excessively generous and disinterested on his own part.

His plan did not vary on seeing them. Mr. Bennet’s lovely face confirmed his views, and established all his strictest notions of what was due to seniority; and for the first evening he was his settled choice. The next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter of an hour’s tête-à-tête with Mr. Bennet before breakfast, a conversation beginning with his parsonage-house, and leading naturally to the avowal of his hopes, that a master for it might be found at Longbourn, produced from him, amid very complaisant smiles and general encouragement, a caution against the very John he had fixed on. “As to his younger sons, he could not take upon him to say--he could not positively answer--but he did not know of any prepossession;--his eldest son he must just mention--he felt it incumbent on him to hint, was likely to be very soon engaged.”

Mr. Collins had only to change from John to Elliot--and it was soon done--done while Mr. Bennet was stirring the fire. Elliot, equally next to John in birth and beauty, succeeded him of course.

Mr. Bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that he might soon have two sons married; and the man whom he could not bear to speak of the day before, was now high in his good graces.

Mr. Lydia’s intention of walking to Meryton was not forgotten: every brother except Mr. Mary agreed to go with him; and Mr. Collins was to attend them, at the request of Mr. Bennet, who was most anxious to get rid of him, and have his library to himself; for thither Mr. Collins had followed him after breakfast, and there he would continue, nominally engaged with one of the largest folios in the collection, but really talking to Mr. Bennet, with little cessation, of his house and garden at Hunsford. Such doings discomposed Mr. Bennet exceedingly. In his library he had been always sure of leisure and tranquillity; and though prepared, as he told Elliot, to meet with folly and conceit in every other room in the house, he was used to be free from them there: his civility, therefore, was most prompt in inviting Mr. Collins to join his sons in their walk; and Mr. Collins, being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely well pleased to close his large book, and go.

In pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his cousins, their time passed till they entered Meryton. The attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him. Their eyes were immediately wandering up the street in quest of the officers, and nothing less than a very smart hat, indeed, or a really new fabric in a shop window, could recall them.

But the attention of every gentleman was soon caught by a young man, whom they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike appearance, walking with an officer on the other side of the way. The officer was the very Mr. Denny concerning whose return from London Mr. Lydia came to inquire, and he bowed as they passed. All were struck with the stranger’s air, all wondered who he could be; and Mr. Kitty and Mr. Lydia, determined if possible to find out, led the way across the street, under pretence of wanting something in an opposite shop, and fortunately had just gained the pavement, when the two gentlemen, turning back, had reached the same spot. Mr. Denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his friend, Mr. Wickham, who had returned with him the day before from town, and, he was happy to say, had accepted a commission in their corps. This was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make him completely charming. His appearance was greatly in his favour: he had all the best parts of beauty, a fine countenance, a good figure, and very pleasing address. The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness of conversation--a readiness at the same time perfectly correct and unassuming; and the whole party were still standing and talking together very agreeably, when the sound of horses drew their notice, and Mr. Darcy and Mr. Bingley were seen riding down the street. On distinguishing the gentlemen of the group the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual civilities. Mr. Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Mr. Bennet the principal object. He was then, he said, on his way to Longbourn on purpose to inquire after him. Mr. Darcy corroborated it with a bow, and was beginning to determine not to fix his eyes on Elliot, when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the stranger; and Elliot happening to see the countenance of both as they looked at each other, was all astonishment at the effect of the meeting. Both changed colour, one looked white, the other red. Mr. Wickham, after a few moments, touched his hat--a salutation which Mr. Darcy just deigned to return. What could be the meaning of it? It was impossible to imagine; it was impossible not to long to know.

In another minute Mr. Bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.

Mr. Denny and Mr. Wickham walked with the young gentlemen to the door of Mr. Philips’s house, and then made their bows, in spite of Mr. Lyndon’s pressing entreaties that they would come in, and even in spite of Mr. Philips’s throwing up the parlour window, and loudly seconding the invitation.

Mr. Philips was always glad to see his nephews; and the two eldest, from their recent absence, were particularly welcome; and he was eagerly expressing his surprise at their sudden return home, which, as their own carriage had not fetched them, he should have known nothing about, if he had not happened to see Mr. Jones’s shopboy in the street, who had told him that they were not to send any more draughts to Netherfield, because the Mr. Bennets were come away, when his civility was claimed towards Mr. Collins by John’s introduction of him. He received him with his very best politeness, which he returned with as much more, apologizing for his intrusion, without any previous acquaintance with him, which he could not help flattering himself, however, might be justified by his relationship to the young gentlemen who introduced him to his notice. Mr. Philips was quite awed by such an excess of good breeding; but his contemplation of one stranger was soon put an end to by exclamations and inquiries about the other, of whom, however, he could only tell his nephews what they already knew, that Mr. Denny had brought him from London, and that he was to have a lieutenant’s commission in the ----shire. He had been watching him the last hour, he said, as he walked up and down the street,--and had Mr. Wickham appeared, Kit and Lyndon would certainly have continued the occupation; but unluckily no one passed the windows now except a few of the officers, who, in comparison with the stranger, were become “stupid, disagreeable fellows.” Some of them were to dine with the Philipses the next day, and their uncle promised to make his husband call on Mr. Wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from Longbourn would come in the evening. This was agreed to; and Mr. Philips protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards. The prospect of such delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits. Mr. Collins repeated his apologies in quitting the room, and was assured, with unwearying civility, that they were perfectly needless.

As they walked home, Elliot related to John what he had seen pass between the two gentlemen; but though John would have defended either or both, had they appeared to be wrong, he could no more explain such behaviour than his brother.

Mr. Collins on his return highly gratified Mr. Bennet by admiring Mr. Philips’s manners and politeness. He protested that, except Mr. Catherine and his son, he had never seen a more elegant man; for he had not only received him with the utmost civility, but had even pointedly included him in his invitation for the next evening, although utterly unknown to him before. Something, he supposed, might be attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much attention in the whole course of his life.
As no objection was made to the young people’s engagement with their uncle, and all Mr. Collins’s scruples of leaving Mr. and Mr. Bennet for a single evening during his visit were most steadily resisted, the coach conveyed him and his five cousins at a suitable hour to Meryton; and the boys had the pleasure of hearing, as they entered the drawing-room, that Mr. Wickham had accepted their uncle’s invitation, and was then in the house.

When this information was given, and they had all taken their seats, Mr. Collins was at leisure to look around him and admire, and he was so much struck with the size and furniture of the apartment, that he declared he might almost have supposed himself in the small summer breakfast parlour at Rosings; a comparison that did not at first convey much gratification; but when Mr. Philips understood from him what Rosings was, and who was its proprietor, when he had listened to the description of only one of Mr. Catherine’s drawing-rooms, and found that the chimney-piece alone had cost eight hundred pounds, he felt all the force of the compliment, and would hardly have resented a comparison with the housekeeper’s room.

In describing to him all the grandeur of Mr. Catherine and his mansion, with occasional digressions in praise of his own humble abode, and the improvements it was receiving, he was happily employed until the gentlemen joined them; and he found in Mr. Philips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what he heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among his neighbours as soon as he could. To the boys, who could not listen to their cousin, and who had nothing to do but to wish for an instrument, and examine their own indifferent imitations of china on the mantel-piece, the interval of waiting appeared very long. It was over at last, however. The gentlemen did approach: and when Mr. Wickham walked into the room, Elliot felt that he had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration. The officers of the ----shire were in general a very creditable, gentlemanlike set and the best of them were of the present party; but Mr. Wickham was as far beyond them all in person, countenance, air, and walk, as _they_ were superior to the broad-faced stuffy uncle Philips, breathing port wine, who followed them into the room.

Mr. Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every male eye was turned, and Elliot was the happy man by whom he finally seated himself; and the agreeable manner in which he immediately fell into conversation, though it was only on its being a wet night, and on the probability of a rainy season, made him feel that the commonest, dullest, most threadbare topic might be rendered interesting by the skill of the speaker.

With such rivals for the notice of the fair as Mr. Wickham and the officers, Mr. Collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young gentlemen he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind listener in Mr. Philips, and was, by his watchfulness, most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin.

When the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging him, in return, by sitting down to whist.

“I know little of the game at present,” said he, “but I shall be glad to improve myself; for in my situation of life----” Mr. Philips was very thankful for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason.

Mr. Wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he received at the other table between Elliot and Lionel. At first there seemed danger of Lionel’s engrossing him entirely, for he was a most determined talker; but being likewise extremely fond of lottery tickets, he soon grew too much interested in the game, too eager in making bets and exclaiming after prizes, to have attention for anyone in particular. Allowing for the common demands of the game, Mr. Wickham was therefore at leisure to talk to Elliot, and he was very willing to hear him, though what he chiefly wished to hear he could not hope to be told, the history of his acquaintance with Mr. Darcy. He dared not even mention that gentleman. His curiosity, however, was unexpectedly relieved. Mr. Wickham began the subject himself. He inquired how far Netherfield was from Meryton; and, after receiving his answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long Mr. Darcy had been staying there.

“About a month,” said Elliot; and then, unwilling to let the subject drop, added, “he is a man of very large property in Derbyshire, I understand.”

“Yes,” replied Wickham; “his estate there is a noble one. A clear ten thousand per annum. You could not have met with a person more capable of giving you certain information on that head than myself--for I have been connected with his family, in a particular manner, from my infancy.”

Elliot could not but look surprised.

“You may well be surprised, Mr. Bennet, at such an assertion, after seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday. Are you much acquainted with Mr. Darcy?”

“As much as I ever wish to be,” cried Elliot, warmly. “I have spent four days in the same house with him, and I think him very disagreeable.”

“I have no right to give _my_ opinion,” said Wickham, “as to his being agreeable or otherwise. I am not qualified to form one. I have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge. It is impossible for _me_ to be impartial. But I believe your opinion of him would in general astonish--and, perhaps, you would not express it quite so strongly anywhere else. Here you are in your own family.”

“Upon my word I say no more _here_ than I might say in any house in the neighbourhood, except Netherfield. He is not at all liked in Hertfordshire. Everybody is disgusted with his pride. You will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone.”

“I cannot pretend to be sorry,” said Mr. Wickham, after a short interruption, “that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts; but with _him_ I believe it does not often happen. The world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.”

“I should take him, even on _my_ slight acquaintance, to be an ill-tempered man.”

Mr. Wickham only shook his head.

“I wonder,” said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, “whether he is likely to be in this country much longer.”

“I do not at all know; but I _heard_ nothing of his going away when I was at Netherfield. I hope your plans in favour of the ----shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.”

“Oh no--it is not for _me_ to be driven away by Mr. Darcy. If _he_ wishes to avoid seeing _me_ he must go. We are not on friendly terms, and it always gives me pain to meet him, but I have no reason for avoiding _him_ but what I might proclaim to all the world--a sense of very great ill-usage, and most painful regrets at his being what he is. His father, Mr. Bennet, the late Mr. Darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed, and the truest friend I ever had; and I can never be in company with this Mr. Darcy without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections. His behaviour to myself has been scandalous; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and everything, rather than his disappointing the hopes and disgracing the memory of his father.”

Mr. Elliot found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with all his heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry.

Mr. Wickham began to speak on more general topics, Meryton, the neighbourhood, the society, appearing highly pleased with all that he had yet seen, and speaking of the latter, especially, with gentle but very intelligible gallantry.

“It was the prospect of constant society, and good society,” he added, “which was my chief inducement to enter the ----shire. I know it to be a most respectable, agreeable corps; and my friend Mr. Denny tempted me further by his account of their present quarters, and the very great attentions and excellent acquaintance Meryton had procured them. Society, I own, is necessary to me. I have been a disappointed man, and my spirits will not bear solitude. I _must_ have employment and society. A military life is not what I was intended for, but circumstances have now made it eligible. The church _ought_ to have been my profession--I was brought up for the church; and I should at this time have been in possession of a most valuable living, had it pleased the gentleman we were speaking of just now.”

“Indeed!”

“Yes--the late Mr. Darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best living in his gift. He was my godfather, and excessively attached to me. I cannot do justice to his kindness. He meant to provide for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given elsewhere.”

“Good heavens!” cried Elliot; “but how could _that_ be? How could his will be disregarded? Why did not you seek legal redress?”

“There was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to give me no hope from law. A man of honour could not have doubted the intention, but Mr. Darcy chose to doubt it--or to treat it as a merely conditional recommendation, and to assert that I had forfeited all claim to it by extravagance, imprudence, in short, anything or nothing. Certain it is that the living became vacant two years ago, exactly as I was of an age to hold it, and that it was given to another man; and no less certain is it, that I cannot accuse myself of having really done anything to deserve to lose it. I have a warm unguarded temper, and I may perhaps have sometimes spoken my opinion _of_ him, and _to_ him, too freely. I can recall nothing worse. But the fact is, that we are very different sort of men, and that he hates me.”

“This is quite shocking! He deserves to be publicly disgraced.”

“Some time or other he _will_ be--but it shall not be by _me_. Till I can forget his father, I can never defy or expose _him_.”

Elliot honoured him for such feelings, and thought him handsomer than ever as he expressed them.

“But what,” said he, after a pause, “can have been his motive? what can have induced him to behave so cruelly?”

“A thorough, determined dislike of me--a dislike which I cannot but attribute in some measure to jealousy. Had the late Mr. Darcy liked me less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father’s uncommon attachment to me irritated him, I believe, very early in life. He had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood--the sort of preference which was often given me.”

“I had not thought Mr. Darcy so bad as this--though I have never liked him, I had not thought so very ill of him--I had supposed him to be despising his fellow-creatures in general, but did not suspect him of descending to such malicious revenge, such injustice, such inhumanity as this!”

After a few minutes’ reflection, however, he continued, “I _do_ remember his boasting one day, at Netherfield, of the implacability of his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper. His disposition must be dreadful.”

“I will not trust myself on the subject,” replied Wickham; “_I_ can hardly be just to him.”

Elliot was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, “To treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his father!” He could have added, “A young man, too, like _you_, whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable.” But he contented himself with--“And one, too, who had probably been his own companion from childhood, connected together, as I think you said, in the closest manner.”

“We were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest part of our youth was passed together: inmates of the same house, sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care. _My_ father began life in the profession which your uncle, Mr. Philips, appears to do so much credit to; but he gave up everything to be of use to the late Mr. Darcy, and devoted all his time to the care of the Pemberley property. He was most highly esteemed by Mr. Darcy, a most intimate, confidential friend. Mr. Darcy often acknowledged himself to be under the greatest obligations to my father’s active superintendence; and when, immediately before my father’s death, Mr. Darcy gave him a voluntary promise of providing for me, I am convinced that he felt it to be as much a debt of gratitude to _him_ as of affection to myself.”

“How strange!” cried Elliot. “How abominable! I wonder that the very pride of this Mr. Darcy has not made him just to you. If from no better motive, that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest,--for dishonesty I must call it.”

“It _is_ wonderful,” replied Wickham; “for almost all his actions may be traced to pride; and pride has often been his best friend. It has connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling. But we are none of us consistent; and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than pride.”

“Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good?”

“Yes; it has often led him to be liberal and generous; to give his money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the poor. Family pride, and _filial_ pride, for he is very proud of what his father was, have done this. Not to appear to disgrace his family, to degenerate from the popular qualities, or lose the influence of the Pemberley House, is a powerful motive. He has also _brotherly_ pride, which, with _some_ brotherly affection, makes him a very kind and careful guardian of his brother; and you will hear him generally cried up as the most attentive and best of brothers.”

“What sort of a man is Mr. Darcy?”

He shook his head. “I wish I could call him amiable. It gives me pain to speak ill of a Darcy; but he is too much like his brother,--very, very proud. As a child, he was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and I have devoted hours and hours to his amusement. But he is nothing to me now. He is a handsome man, about fifteen or sixteen, and, I understand, highly accomplished. Since his father’s death his home has been London, where a gentleman lives with him, and superintends his education.”

After many pauses and many trials of other subjects, Elliot could not help reverting once more to the first, and saying,--

“I am astonished at his intimacy with Mr. Bingley. How can Mr. Bingley, who seems good-humour itself, and is, I really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man? How can they suit each other? Do you know Mr. Bingley?”

“Not at all.”

“He is a sweet-tempered, amiable, charming man. He cannot know what Mr. Darcy is.”

“Probably not; but Mr. Darcy can please where he chooses. He does not want abilities. He can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while. Among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous. His pride never deserts him; but with the rich he is liberal-minded, just, sincere, rational, honourable, and, perhaps, agreeable,--allowing something for fortune and figure.”

The whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table, and Mr. Collins took his station between his cousin Elliot and Mr. Philips. The usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter. It had not been very great; he had lost every point; but when Mr. Philips began to express his concern thereupon, he assured him, with much earnest gravity, that it was not of the least importance; that he considered the money as a mere trifle, and begged he would not make himself uneasy.

“I know very well, sir,” said he, “that when persons sit down to a card table they must take their chance of these things,--and happily I am not in such circumstances as to make five shillings any object. There are, undoubtedly, many who could not say the same; but, thanks to Mr. Catherine de Bourgh, I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding little matters.”

Mr. Wickham’s attention was caught; and after observing Mr. Collins for a few moments, he asked Elliot in a low voice whether his relations were very intimately acquainted with the family of De Bourgh.

“Mr. Catherine de Bourgh,” he replied, “has very lately given him a living. I hardly know how Mr. Collins was first introduced to his notice, but he certainly has not known him long.”

“You know of course that Mr. Catherine de Bourgh and Mr. Anne Darcy were brothers; consequently that he is uncle to the present Mr. Darcy.”

“No, indeed, I did not. I knew nothing at all of Mr. Catherine’s connections. I never heard of his existence till the day before yesterday.”

“His son, Mr. de Bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is believed that he and his cousin will unite the two estates.”

This information made Elliot smile, as he thought of poor Mr. Bingley. Vain indeed must be all his attentions, vain and useless his affection for his brother and his praise of himself, if he were already self-destined to another.

“Mr. Collins,” said he, “speaks highly both of Mr. Catherine and his son; but, from some particulars that he has related of his Lordship, I suspect his gratitude misleads him; and that, in spite of him being his patron, he is an arrogant, conceited man.”

“I believe him to be both in a great degree,” replied Wickham; “I have not seen him for many years; but I very well remember that I never liked him, and that his manners were dictatorial and insolent. He has the reputation of being remarkably sensible and clever; but I rather believe he derives part of his abilities from his rank and fortune, part from his authoritative manner, and the rest from the pride of his nephew, who chooses that everyone connected with him should have an understanding of the first class.”

Elliot allowed that he had given a very rational account of it, and they continued talking together with mutual satisfaction till supper put an end to cards, and gave the rest of the gentlemen their share of Mr. Wickham’s attentions. There could be no conversation in the noise of Mr. Philips’s supper party, but his manners recommended him to everybody. Whatever he said, was said well; and whatever he did, done gracefully. Elliot went away with his head full of him. He could think of nothing but of Mr. Wickham, and of what he had told him, all the way home; but there was not time for him even to mention his name as they went, for neither Lyndon nor Mr. Collins were once silent. Lyndon talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish he had lost and the fish he had won; and Mr. Collins, in describing the civility of Mr. and Mr. Philips, protesting that he did not in the least regard his losses at whist, enumerating all the dishes at supper, and repeatedly fearing that he crowded his cousins, had more to say than he could well manage before the carriage stopped at Longbourn House.
Elliot related to John, the next day, what had passed between Mr. Wickham and himself. John listened with astonishment and concern: he knew not how to believe that Mr. Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. Bingley’s regard; and yet it was not in his nature to question the veracity of a young man of such amiable appearance as Wickham. The possibility of his having really endured such unkindness was enough to interest all his tender feelings; and nothing therefore remained to be done but to think well of them both, to defend the conduct of each, and throw into the account of accident or mistake whatever could not be otherwise explained.

“They have both,” said he, “been deceived, I dare say, in some way or other, of which we can form no idea. Interested people have perhaps misrepresented each to the other. It is, in short, impossible for us to conjecture the causes or circumstances which may have alienated them, without actual blame on either side.”

“Very true, indeed; and now, my dear John, what have you got to say in behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business? Do clear _them_, too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of somebody.”

“Laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my opinion. My dearest Elliot, do but consider in what a disgraceful light it places Mr. Darcy, to be treating his father’s favourite in such a manner,--one whom his father had promised to provide for. It is impossible. No man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his character, could be capable of it. Can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him? Oh no.”

“I can much more easily believe Mr. Bingley’s being imposed on than that Mr. Wickham should invent such a history of himself as he gave me last night; names, facts, everything mentioned without ceremony. If it be not so, let Mr. Darcy contradict it. Besides, there was truth in his looks.”

“It is difficult, indeed--it is distressing. One does not know what to think.”

“I beg your pardon;--one knows exactly what to think.”

But John could think with certainty on only one point,--that Mr. Bingley, if he _had been_ imposed on, would have much to suffer when the affair became public.

The two young gentlemen were summoned from the shrubbery, where this conversation passed, by the arrival of some of the very persons of whom they had been speaking; Mr. Bingley and his brothers came to give their personal invitation for the long expected ball at Netherfield, which was fixed for the following Tuesday. The two gentlemen were delighted to see their dear friend again, called it an age since they had met, and repeatedly asked what he had been doing with himself since their separation. To the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding Mr. Bennet as much as possible, saying not much to Elliot, and nothing at all to the others. They were soon gone again, rising from their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and hurrying off as if eager to escape from Mr. Bennet’s civilities.

The prospect of the Netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every man of the family. Mr. Bennet chose to consider it as given in compliment to his eldest son, and was particularly flattered by receiving the invitation from Mr. Bingley himself, instead of a ceremonious card. John pictured to himself a happy evening in the society of his two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and Elliot thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with Mr. Wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in Mr. Darcy’s look and behaviour. The happiness anticipated by Christopher and Leonard depended less on any single event, or any particular person; for though they each, like Elliot, meant to dance half the evening with Mr. Wickham, he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball was, at any rate, a ball. And even Martin could assure his family that he had no disinclination for it.

“While I can have my mornings to myself,” said he, “it is enough. I think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements. Society has claims on us all; and I profess myself one of those who consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for everybody.”

Elliot’s spirits were so high on the occasion, that though he did not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. Collins, he could not help asking him whether he intended to accept Mr. Bingley’s invitation, and if he did, whether he would think it proper to join in the evening’s amusement; and he was rather surprised to find that he entertained no scruple whatever on that head, and was very far from dreading a rebuke, either from the Archbishop or Mr. Catherine de Bourgh, by venturing to dance.

“I am by no means of opinion, I assure you,” said he, “that a ball of this kind, given by a young man of character, to respectable people, can have any evil tendency; and I am so far from objecting to dancing myself, that I shall hope to be honoured with the hands of all my fair cousins in the course of the evening; and I take this opportunity of soliciting yours, Mr. Elliot, for the two first dances especially; a preference which I trust my cousin John will attribute to the right cause, and not to any disrespect for him.”

Elliot felt himself completely taken in. He had fully proposed being engaged by Wickham for those very dances; and to have Mr. Collins instead!--his liveliness had been never worse timed. There was no help for it, however. Mr. Wickham’s happiness and his own was perforce delayed a little longer, and Mr. Collins’s proposal accepted with as good a grace as he could. He was not the better pleased with his gallantry, from the idea it suggested of something more. It now first struck him, that _he_ was selected from among his brothers as worthy of being the master of Hunsford Parsonage, and of assisting to form a quadrille table at Rosings, in the absence of more eligible visitors. The idea soon reached to conviction, as he observed his increasing civilities towards himself, and heard his frequent attempt at a compliment on his wit and vivacity; and though more astonished than gratified himself by this effect of his charms, it was not long before his father gave him to understand that the probability of their marriage was exceedingly agreeable to _him_. Elliot, however, did not choose to take the hint, being well aware that a serious dispute must be the consequence of any reply. Mr. Collins might never make the offer, and, till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.

If there had not been a Netherfield ball to prepare for and talk of, the younger Mr. Bennets would have been in a pitiable state at this time; for, from the day of the invitation to the day of the ball, there was such a succession of rain as prevented their walking to Meryton once. No uncle, no officers, no news could be sought after; the very shoe-roses for Netherfield were got by proxy. Even Elliot might have found some trial of his patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement of his acquaintance with Mr. Wickham; and nothing less than a dance on Tuesday could have made such a Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday endurable to Kit and Lionel.
Till Elliot entered the drawing-room at Netherfield, and looked in vain for Mr. Wickham among the cluster of red coats there assembled, a doubt of his being present had never occurred to him. The certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed him. He had dressed with more than usual care, and prepared in the highest spirits for the conquest of all that remained unsubdued of his heart, trusting that it was not more than might be won in the course of the evening. But in an instant arose the dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted, for Mr. Darcy’s pleasure, in the Bingleys’ invitation to the officers; and though this was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was pronounced by his friend Mr. Denny, to whom Lionel eagerly applied, and who told them that Wickham had been obliged to go to town on business the day before, and was not yet returned; adding, with a significant smile,--

“I do not imagine his business would have called him away just now, if he had not wished to avoid a certain gentleman here.”

This part of his intelligence, though unheard by Lionel, was caught by Elliot; and, as it assured him that Darcy was not less answerable for Wickham’s absence than if his first surmise had been just, every feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate disappointment, that he could hardly reply with tolerable civility to the polite inquiries which he directly afterwards approached to make. Attention, forbearance, patience with Darcy, was injury to Wickham. He was resolved against any sort of conversation with him, and turned away with a degree of ill-humour which he could not wholly surmount even in speaking to Mr. Bingley, whose blind partiality provoked him.

But Elliot was not formed for ill-humour; and though every prospect of his own was destroyed for the evening, it could not dwell long on his spirits; and, having told all his griefs to Charles Lucas, whom he had not seen for a week, he was soon able to make a voluntary transition to the oddities of his cousin, and to point him out to his particular notice. The two first dances, however, brought a return of distress: they were dances of mortification. Mr. Collins, awkward and solemn, apologizing instead of attending, and often moving wrong without being aware of it, gave him all the shame and misery which a disagreeable partner for a couple of dances can give. The moment of his release from him was ecstasy.

He danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of Wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked. When those dances were over, he returned to Charles Lucas, and was in conversation with him, when he found himself suddenly addressed by Mr. Darcy, who took him so much by surprise in his application for his hand, that, without knowing what he did, he accepted him. He walked away again immediately, and he was left to fret over his own want of presence of mind: Charles tried to console him.

“I dare say you will find him very agreeable.”

“Heaven forbid! _That_ would be the greatest misfortune of all! To find a man agreeable whom one is determined to hate! Do not wish me such an evil.”

When the dancing recommenced, however, and Darcy approached to claim his hand, Charles could not help cautioning him, in a whisper, not to be a simpleton, and allow his fancy for Wickham to make him appear unpleasant in the eyes of a man often times his consequence. Elliot made no answer, and took his place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which he was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to Mr. Darcy, and reading in his neighbours’ looks their equal amazement in beholding it. They stood for some time without speaking a word; and he began to imagine that their silence was to last through the two dances, and, at first, was resolved not to break it; till suddenly fancying that it would be the greater punishment to his partner to oblige him to talk, he made some slight observation on the dance. He replied, and was again silent. After a pause of some minutes, he addressed him a second time, with--

“It is _your_ turn to say something now, Mr. Darcy. _I_ talked about the dance, and _you_ ought to make some kind of remark on the size of the room, or the number of couples.”

He smiled, and assured him that whatever he wished him to say should be said.

“Very well; that reply will do for the present. Perhaps, by-and-by, I may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones; but _now_ we may be silent.”

“Do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?”

“Sometimes. One must speak a little, you know. It would look odd to be entirely silent for half an hour together; and yet, for the advantage of _some_, conversation ought to be so arranged as that they may have the trouble of saying as little as possible.”

“Are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?”

“Both,” replied Elliot archly; “for I have always seen a great similarity in the turn of our minds. We are each of an unsocial, taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all the _éclat_ of a proverb.”

“This is no very striking resemblance of your own character, I am sure,” said he. “How near it may be to _mine_, I cannot pretend to say. _You_ think it a faithful portrait, undoubtedly.”

“I must not decide on my own performance.”

He made no answer; and they were again silent till they had gone down the dance, when he asked him if he and his brothers did not very often walk to Meryton. He answered in the affirmative; and, unable to resist the temptation, added, “When you met us there the other day, we had just been forming a new acquaintance.”

The effect was immediate. A deeper shade of _hauteur_ overspread his features, but he said not a word; and Elliot, though blaming himself for his own weakness, could not go on. At length Darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said,--

“Mr. Wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may insure his _making_ friends; whether he may be equally capable of _retaining_ them, is less certain.”

“He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendship,” replied Elliot, with emphasis, “and in a manner which he is likely to suffer from all his life.”

Darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject. At that moment Mr. William Lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but, on perceiving Mr. Darcy, he stopped, with a bow of superior courtesy, to compliment him on his dancing and his partner.

“I have been most highly gratified, indeed, my dear sir; such very superior dancing is not often seen. It is evident that you belong to the first circles. Allow me to say, however, that your fair partner does not disgrace you: and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated, especially when a certain desirable event, my dear Mr. Elliot (glancing at his brother and Bingley), shall take place. What congratulations will then flow in! I appeal to Mr. Darcy;--but let me not interrupt you, sir. You will not thank me for detaining you from the bewitching converse of that young gentleman, whose bright eyes are also upbraiding me.”

The latter part of this address was scarcely heard by Darcy; but Mr. William’s allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly, and his eyes were directed, with a very serious expression, towards Bingley and John, who were dancing together. Recovering himself, however, shortly, he turned to his partner, and said,--

“Mr. William’s interruption has made me forget what we were talking of.”

“I do not think we were speaking at all. Mr. William could not have interrupted any two people in the room who had less to say for themselves. We have tried two or three subjects already without success, and what we are to talk of next I cannot imagine.”

“What think you of books?” said he, smiling.

“Books--oh no!--I am sure we never read the same, or not with the same feelings.”

“I am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject. We may compare our different opinions.”

“No--I cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full of something else.”

“The _present_ always occupies you in such scenes--does it?” said he, with a look of doubt.

“Yes, always,” he replied, without knowing what he said; for his thoughts had wandered far from the subject, as soon afterwards appeared by his suddenly exclaiming, “I remember hearing you once say, Mr. Darcy, that you hardly ever forgave;--that your resentment, once created, was unappeasable. You are very cautious, I suppose, as to its _being created_?”

“I am,” said he, with a firm voice.

“And never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?”

“I hope not.”

“It is particularly incumbent on those who never change their opinion, to be secure of judging properly at first.”

“May I ask to what these questions tend?”

“Merely to the illustration of _your_ character,” said he, endeavouring to shake off his gravity. “I am trying to make it out.”

“And what is your success?”

He shook his head. “I do not get on at all. I hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.”

“I can readily believe,” answered he, gravely, “that reports may vary greatly with respect to me; and I could wish, Mr. Bennet, that you were not to sketch my character at the present moment, as there is reason to fear that the performance would reflect no credit on either.”

“But if I do not take your likeness now, I may never have another opportunity.”

“I would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours,” he coldly replied. He said no more, and they went down the other dance and parted in silence; on each side dissatisfied, though not to an equal degree; for in Darcy’s breast there was a tolerably powerful feeling towards him, which soon procured his pardon, and directed all his anger against another.

They had not long separated when Mr. Bingley came towards him, and, with an expression of civil disdain, thus accosted him,--

“So, Mr. Elliot, I hear you are quite delighted with George Wickham? Your brother has been talking to me about him, and asking me a thousand questions; and I find that the young man forgot to tell you, among his other communications, that he was the son of old Wickham, the late Mr. Darcy’s steward. Let me recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give implicit confidence to all his assertions; for, as to Mr. Darcy’s using him ill, it is perfectly false: for, on the contrary, he has been always remarkably kind to him, though George Wickham has treated Mr. Darcy in a most infamous manner. I do not know the particulars, but I know very well that Mr. Darcy is not in the least to blame; that he cannot bear to hear George Wickham mentioned; and that though my brother thought he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to the officers, he was excessively glad to find that he had taken himself out of the way. His coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and I wonder how he could presume to do it. I pity you, Mr. Elliot, for this discovery of your favourite’s guilt; but really, considering his descent, one could not expect much better.”

“His guilt and his descent appear, by your account, to be the same,” said Elliot, angrily; “for I have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of Mr. Darcy’s steward, and of _that_, I can assure you, he informed me himself.”

“I beg your pardon,” replied Mr. Bingley, turning away with a sneer. “Excuse my interference; it was kindly meant.”

“Insolent man!” said Elliot to himself. “You are much mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this. I see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of Mr. Darcy.” He then sought his eldest brother, who had undertaken to make inquiries on the same subject of Bingley. John met him with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well he was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening. Elliot instantly read his feelings; and, at that moment, solicitude for Wickham, resentment against his enemies, and everything else, gave way before the hope of John’s being in the fairest way for happiness.

“I want to know,” said he, with a countenance no less smiling than his brother’s, “what you have learnt about Mr. Wickham. But perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person, in which case you may be sure of my pardon.”

“No,” replied John, “I have not forgotten him; but I have nothing satisfactory to tell you. Mr. Bingley does not know the whole of his history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have principally offended Mr. Darcy; but he will vouch for the good conduct, the probity and honour, of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that Mr. Wickham has deserved much less attention from Mr. Darcy than he has received; and I am sorry to say that by his account, as well as his brother’s, Mr. Wickham is by no means a respectable young man. I am afraid he has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose Mr. Darcy’s regard.”

“Mr. Bingley does not know Mr. Wickham himself.”

“No; he never saw him till the other morning at Meryton.”

“This account then is what he has received from Mr. Darcy. I am perfectly satisfied. But what does he say of the living?”

“He does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has heard them from Mr. Darcy more than once, but he believes that it was left to him _conditionally_ only.”

“I have not a doubt of Mr. Bingley’s sincerity,” said Elliot warmly, “but you must excuse my not being convinced by assurances only. Mr. Bingley’s defence of his friend was a very able one, I dare say; but since he is unacquainted with several parts of the story, and has learnt the rest from that friend himself, I shall venture still to think of both gentlemen as I did before.”

He then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment. Elliot listened with delight to the happy though modest hopes which John entertained of Bingley’s regard, and said all in his power to heighten his confidence in it. On their being joined by Mr. Bingley himself, Elliot withdrew
Miss Lucas; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last

partner he had scarcely replied, before Mr. Collins came up to them, and told him with great exultation, that he had just been so fortunate as to make a most important discovery.

“I have found out,” said he, “by a singular accident, that there is now in the room a near relation to my patron. I happened to overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young gentleman who does the honours of this house the names of his cousin Mr. De Bourgh, and of his father, Mr. Catherine. How wonderfully these sort of things occur! Who would have thought of my meeting with--perhaps--a nephew of Mr. Catherine de Bourgh in this assembly! I am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which I am now going to do, and trust he will excuse my not having done it before. My total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.”

“You are not going to introduce yourself to Mr. Darcy?”

“Indeed I am. I shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier. I believe him to be Mr. Catherine’s nephew. It will be in my power to assure him that his Lordship was quite well yesterday se’nnight.”

Elliot tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme; assuring him that Mr. Darcy would consider his addressing him without introduction as an impertinent freedom, rather than a compliment to his uncle; that it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either side, and that if it were, it must belong to Mr. Darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the acquaintance. Mr. Collins listened to him with the determined air of following his own inclination, and when he ceased speaking, replied thus,--

“My dear Mr. Elliot, I have the highest opinion in the world of your excellent judgment in all matters within the scope of your understanding, but permit me to say that there must be a wide difference between the established forms of ceremony amongst the laity and those which regulate the clergy; for, give me leave to observe that I consider the clerical office as equal in point of dignity with the highest rank in the kingdom--provided that a proper humility of behaviour is at the same time maintained. You must, therefore, allow me to follow the dictates of my conscience on this occasion, which lead me to perform what I look on as a point of duty. Pardon me for neglecting to profit by your advice, which on every other subject shall be my constant guide, though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by education and habitual study to decide on what is right than a young gentleman like yourself;” and with a low bow he left him to attack Mr. Darcy, whose reception of his advances he eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at being so addressed was very evident. His cousin prefaced his speech with a solemn bow, and though he could not hear a word of it, he felt as if hearing it all, and saw in the motion of his lips the words “apology,” “Hunsford,” and “Mr. Catherine de Bourgh.” It vexed him to see him expose himself to such a man. Mr. Darcy was eyeing him with unrestrained wonder; and when at last Mr. Collins allowed him to speak, replied with an air of distant civility. Mr. Collins, however, was not discouraged from speaking again, and Mr. Darcy’s contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech; and at the end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way: Mr. Collins then returned to Elliot.

“I have no reason, I assure you,” said he, “to be dissatisfied with my reception. Mr. Darcy seemed much pleased with the attention. He answered me with the utmost civility, and even paid me the compliment of saying, that he was so well convinced of Mr. Catherine’s discernment as to be certain he could never bestow a favour unworthily. It was really a very handsome thought. Upon the whole, I am much pleased with him.”

As Elliot had no longer any interest of his own to pursue, he turned his attention almost entirely on his brother and Mr. Bingley; and the train of agreeable reflections which his observations gave birth to made him perhaps almost as happy as John. He saw him in idea settled in that very house, in all the felicity which a marriage of true affection could bestow; and he felt capable, under such circumstances, of endeavouring even to like Bingley’s two brothers. His father’s thoughts he plainly saw were bent the same way, and he determined not to venture near him, lest he might hear too much. When they sat down to supper, therefore, he considered it a most unlucky perverseness which placed them within one of each other; and deeply was he vexed to find that his father was talking to that one person (Mr. Lucas) freely, openly, and of nothing else but of his expectation that John would be soon married to Mr. Bingley. It was an animating subject, and Mr. Bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match. His being such a charming young man, and so rich, and living but three miles from them, were the first points of self-gratulation; and then it was such a comfort to think how fond the two brothers were of John, and to be certain that they must desire the connection as much as he could do. It was, moreover, such a promising thing for his younger sons, as John’s marrying so greatly must throw them in the way of other rich men; and, lastly, it was so pleasant at his time of life to be able to consign his single sons to the care of their brother, that he might not be obliged to go into company more than he liked. It was necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than Mr. Bennet to find comfort in staying at home at any period of his life. He concluded with many good wishes that Mr. Lucas might soon be equally fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no chance of it.

In vain did Elliot endeavour to check the rapidity of his father’s words, or persuade him to describe his felicity in a less audible whisper; for to his inexpressible vexation he could perceive that the chief of it was overheard by Mr. Darcy, who sat opposite to them. His father only scolded him for being nonsensical.

“What is Mr. Darcy to me, pray, that I should be afraid of him? I am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing he may not like to hear.”

“For heaven’s sake, sir, speak lower. What advantage can it be to you to offend Mr. Darcy? You will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing.”

Nothing that he could say, however, had any influence. His father would talk of his views in the same intelligible tone. Elliot blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation. He could not help frequently glancing his eye at Mr. Darcy, though every glance convinced him of what he dreaded; for though he was not always looking at his father, he was convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by him. The expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.

At length, however, Mr. Bennet had no more to say; and Mr. Lucas, who had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which he saw no likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken. Elliot now began to revive. But not long was the interval of tranquillity; for when supper was over, singing was talked of, and he had the mortification of seeing Martin, after very little entreaty, preparing to oblige the company. By many significant looks and silent entreaties did he endeavour to prevent such a proof of complaisance,--but in vain; Martin would not understand them; such an opportunity of exhibiting was delightful to him, and he began his song. Elliot’s eyes were fixed on him, with most painful sensations; and he watched his progress through the several stanzas with an impatience which was very ill rewarded at their close; for Martin, on receiving amongst the thanks of the table the hint of a hope that he might be prevailed on to favour them again, after the pause of half a minute began another. Martin’s powers were by no means fitted for such a display; his voice was weak, and his manner affected. Elliot was in agonies. He looked at John to see how he bore it; but John was very composedly talking to Bingley. He looked at his two brothers, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at Darcy, who continued, however, impenetrably grave. He looked at his father to entreat his interference, lest Martin should be singing all night. He took the hint, and, when Martin had finished his second song, said aloud,--

“That will do extremely well, child. You have delighted us long enough. Let the other young gentlemen have time to exhibit.”

Martin, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and Elliot, sorry for him, and sorry for his father’s speech, was afraid his anxiety had done no good. Others of the party were now applied to.

“If I,” said Mr. Collins, “were so fortunate as to be able to sing, I should have great pleasure, I am sure, in obliging the company with an air; for I consider music as a very innocent diversion, and perfectly compatible with the profession of a clergyman. I do not mean, however, to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to. The rector of a parish has much to do. In the first place, he must make such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not offensive to his patron. He must write his own sermons; and the time that remains will not be too much for his parish duties, and the care and improvement of his dwelling, which he cannot be excused from making as comfortable as possible. And I do not think it of light importance that he should have attentive and conciliatory manners towards everybody, especially towards those to whom he owes his preferment. I cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could I think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family.” And with a bow to Mr. Darcy, he concluded his speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room. Many stared--many smiled; but no one looked more amused than Mr. Bennet himself, while his husband seriously commended Mr. Collins for having spoken so sensibly, and observed, in a half-whisper to Mr. Lucas, that he was a remarkably clever, good kind of young man.

To Elliot it appeared, that had his family made an agreement to expose themselves as much as they could during the evening, it would have been impossible for them to play their parts with more spirit, or finer success; and happy did he think it for Bingley and his brother that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice, and that his feelings were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he must have witnessed. That his two brothers and Mr. Darcy, however, should have such an opportunity of ridiculing his relations was bad enough; and he could not determine whether the silent contempt of the gentleman, or the insolent smiles of the gentlemen, were more intolerable.

The rest of the evening brought him little amusement. He was teased by Mr. Collins, who continued most perseveringly by his side; and though he could not prevail with him to dance with him again, put it out of his power to dance with others. In vain did he entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offered to introduce him to any young gentleman in the room. He assured him that, as to dancing, he was perfectly indifferent to it; that his chief object was, by delicate attentions, to recommend himself to him; and that he should therefore make a point of remaining close to him the whole evening. There was no arguing upon such a project. He owed his greatest relief to his friend Mr. Lucas, who often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged Mr. Collins’s conversation to himself.

He was at least free from the offence of Mr. Darcy’s further notice: though often standing within a very short distance of him, quite disengaged, he never came near enough to speak. He felt it to be the probable consequence of his allusions to Mr. Wickham, and rejoiced in it.

The Longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart; and by a manœuvre of Mr. Bennet had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family. Mr. Hurst and his brother scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves. They repulsed every attempt of Mr. Bennet at conversation, and, by so doing, threw a languor over the whole party, which was very little relieved by the long speeches of Mr. Collins, who was complimenting Mr. Bingley and his brothers on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests. Darcy said nothing at all. Mr. Bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene. Mr. Bingley and John were standing together a little detached from the rest, and talked only to each other. Elliot preserved as steady a silence as either Mr. Hurst or Mr. Bingley; and even Lionel was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of “Lord, how tired I am!” accompanied by a violent yawn.

When at length they arose to take leave, Mr. Bennet was most pressingly civil in his hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn; and addressed himself particularly to Mr. Bingley, to assure him how happy he would make them, by eating a family dinner with them at any time, without the ceremony of a formal invitation. Bingley was all grateful pleasure; and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on him after his return from London, whither he was obliged to go the next day for a short time.

Mr. Bennet was perfectly satisfied; and quitted the house under the delightful persuasion that, allowing for the necessary preparations of settlements, new carriages, and wedding clothes, he should undoubtedly see his son settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four months. Of having another son married to Mr. Collins he thought with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure. Elliot was the least dear to him of all his children; and though the man and the match were quite good enough for _him_, the worth of each was eclipsed by Mr. Bingley and Netherfield.
The next day opened a new scene at Longbourn. Mr. Collins made his declaration in form. Having resolved to do it without loss of time, as his leave of absence extended only to the following Saturday, and having no feelings of diffidence to make it distressing to himself even at the moment, he set about it in a very orderly manner, with all the observances which he supposed a regular part of the business. On finding Mr. Bennet, Elliot, and one of the younger boys together, soon after breakfast, he addressed the father in these words,--

“May I hope, sir, for your interest with your fine son Elliot, when I solicit for the honour of a private audience with him in the course of this morning?”

Before Elliot had time for anything but a blush of surprise, Mr. Bennet instantly answered,--

“Oh dear! Yes, certainly. I am sure Elly will be very happy--I am sure he can have no objection. Come, Kit, I want you upstairs.” And gathering his work together, he was hastening away, when Elliot called out,--

“Dear sir, do not go. I beg you will not go. Mr. Collins must excuse me. He can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear. I am going away myself.”

“No, no, nonsense, Elly. I desire you will stay where you are.” And upon Elliot’s seeming really, with vexed and embarrassed looks, about to escape, he added, “Elly, I _insist_ upon your staying and hearing Mr. Collins.”

Elliot would not oppose such an injunction; and a moment’s consideration making him also sensible that it would be wisest to get it over as soon and as quietly as possible, he sat down again, and tried to conceal, by incessant employment, the feelings which were divided between distress and diversion. Mr. Bennet and Kit walked off, and as soon as they were gone, Mr. Collins began,--

“Believe me, my dear Mr. Elliot, that your modesty, so far from doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections. You would have been less amiable in my eyes had there _not_ been this little unwillingness; but allow me to assure you that I have your respected father’s permission for this address. You can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken. Almost as soon as I entered the house I singled you out as the companion of my future life. But before I am run away with by my feelings on this subject, perhaps it will be advisable for me to state my reasons for marrying--and, moreover, for coming into Hertfordshire with the design of selecting a husband, as I certainly did.”

The idea of Mr. Collins, with all his solemn composure, being run away with by his feelings, made Elliot so near laughing that he could not use the short pause he allowed in any attempt to stop him farther, and he continued,--

“My reasons for marrying are, first, that I think it a right thing for every clergyman in easy circumstances (like myself) to set the example of matrimony in his parish; secondly, that I am convinced it will add very greatly to my happiness; and, thirdly, which perhaps I ought to have mentioned earlier, that it is the particular advice and recommendation of the very noble gentleman whom I have the honour of calling patron. Twice has he condescended to give me his opinion (unasked too!) on this subject; and it was but the very Saturday night before I left Hunsford,--between our pools at quadrille, while Mr. Jenkinson was arranging Mr. De Bourgh’s footstool,--that he said, ‘Mr. Collins, you must marry. A clergyman like you must marry. Choose properly, choose a gentleman for _my_ sake, and for your _own_; let him be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small income go a good way. This is my advice. Find such a man as soon as you can, bring him to Hunsford, and I will visit him.’ Allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that I do not reckon the notice and kindness of Mr. Catherine de Bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer. You will find his manners beyond anything I can describe; and your wit and vivacity, I think, must be acceptable to him, especially when tempered with the silence and respect which his rank will inevitably excite. Thus much for my general intention in favour of matrimony; it remains to be told why my views were directed to Longbourn instead of my own neighbourhood, where I assure you there are many amiable young men. But the fact is, that being, as I am, to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured father (who, however, may live many years longer), I could not satisfy myself without resolving to choose a husband from among his sons, that the loss to them might be as little as possible when the melancholy event takes place--which, however, as I have already said, may not be for several years. This has been my motive, my fair cousin, and I flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem. And now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection. To fortune I am perfectly indifferent, and shall make no demand of that nature on your father, since I am well aware that it could not be complied with; and that one thousand pounds in the per cents., which will not be yours till after your father’s decease, is all that you may ever be entitled to. On that head, therefore, I shall be uniformly silent: and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married.”

It was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.

“You are too hasty, sir,” he cried. “You forget that I have made no answer. Let me do it without further loss of time. Accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me. I am very sensible of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than decline them.”

“I am not now to learn,” replied Mr. Collins, with a formal wave of the hand, “that it is usual with young gentlemen to reject the addresses of the man whom they secretly mean to accept, when he first applies for their favour; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second or even a third time. I am, therefore, by no means discouraged by what you have just said, and shall hope to lead you to the altar ere long.”

“Upon my word, sir,” cried Elliot, “your hope is rather an extraordinary one after my declaration. I do assure you that I am not one of those young gentlemen (if such young gentlemen there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time. I am perfectly serious in my refusal. You could not make _me_ happy, and I am convinced that I am the last man in the world who would make _you_ so. Nay, were your friend Mr. Catherine to know me, I am persuaded he would find me in every respect ill qualified for the situation.”

“Were it certain that Mr. Catherine would think so,” said Mr. Collins, very gravely--“but I cannot imagine that his Lordship would at all disapprove of you. And you may be certain that when I have the honour of seeing him again I shall speak in the highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable qualifications.”

“Indeed, Mr. Collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary. You must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of believing what I say. I wish you very happy and very rich, and by refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise. In making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of Longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach. This matter may be considered, therefore, as finally settled.” And rising as he thus spoke, he would have quitted the room, had not Mr. Collins thus addressed him,--

“When I do myself the honour of speaking to you next on the subject, I shall hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given me; though I am far from accusing you of cruelty at present, because I know it to be the established custom of your sex to reject a man on the first application, and, perhaps, you have even now said as much to encourage my suit as would be consistent with the true delicacy of the male character.”

“Really, Mr. Collins,” cried Elliot, with some warmth, “you puzzle me exceedingly. If what I have hitherto said can appear to you in the form of encouragement, I know not how to express my refusal in such a way as may convince you of its being one.”

“You must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your refusal of my addresses are merely words of course. My reasons for believing it are briefly these:--It does not appear to me that my hand is unworthy of your acceptance, or that the establishment I can offer would be any other than highly desirable. My situation in life, my connections with the family of De Bourgh, and my relationship to your own, are circumstances highly in my favour; and you should take it into further consideration that, in spite of your manifold attractions, it is by no means certain that another offer of marriage may ever be made you. Your portion is unhappily so small, that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your handsomeness and amiable qualifications. As I must, therefore, conclude that you are not serious in your rejection of me, I shall choose to attribute it to your wish of increasing my love by suspense, according to the usual practice of elegant gentlemen.”

“I do assure you, sir, that I have no pretensions whatever to that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man. I would rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere. I thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but to accept them is absolutely impossible. My feelings in every respect forbid it. Can I speak plainer? Do not consider me now as an elegant gentleman intending to plague you, but as a rational creature speaking the truth from his heart.”

“You are uniformly charming!” cried he, with an air of awkward gallantry; “and I am persuaded that, when sanctioned by the express authority of both your excellent fathers, my proposals will not fail of being acceptable.”

To such perseverance in wilful self-deception Elliot would make no reply, and immediately and in silence withdrew; determined, that if he persisted in considering his repeated refusals as flattering encouragement, to apply to his father, whose negative might be uttered in such a manner as must be decisive, and whose behaviour at least could not be mistaken for the affectation and coquetry of an elegant gentleman.
Mr. Collins was not left long to the silent contemplation of his successful love; for Mr. Bennet, having dawdled about in the vestibule to watch for the end of the conference, no sooner saw Elliot open the door and with quick step pass him towards the staircase, than he entered the breakfast-room, and congratulated both him and himself in warm terms on the happy prospect of their nearer connection. Mr. Collins received and returned these felicitations with equal pleasure, and then proceeded to relate the particulars of their interview, with the result of which he trusted he had every reason to be satisfied, since the refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow from his bashful modesty and the genuine delicacy of his character.

This information, however, startled Mr. Bennet: he would have been glad to be equally satisfied that his son had meant to encourage him by protesting against his proposals, but he dared not believe it, and could not help saying so.

“But depend upon it, Mr. Collins,” he added, “that Elliot shall be brought to reason. I will speak to him about it myself directly. He is a very headstrong, foolish boy, and does not know his own interest; but I will _make_ him know it.”

“Pardon me for interrupting you, sir,” cried Mr. Collins; “but if he is really headstrong and foolish, I know not whether he would altogether be a very desirable husband to a man in my situation, who naturally looks for happiness in the marriage state. If, therefore, he actually persists in rejecting my suit, perhaps it were better not to force him into accepting me, because, if liable to such defects of temper, he could not contribute much to my felicity.”

“Sir, you quite misunderstand me,” said Mr. Bennet, alarmed. “Elliot is only headstrong in such matters as these. In everything else he is as good-natured a boy as ever lived. I will go directly to Mr. Bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with him, I am sure.”

He would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to his husband, called out, as he entered the library,--

“Oh, Mr. Bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar. You must come and make Elliot marry Mr. Collins, for he vows he will not have him; and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have _him_.”

Mr. Bennet raised his eyes from his book as he entered, and fixed them on his face with a calm unconcern, which was not in the least altered by his communication.

“I have not the pleasure of understanding you,” said he, when he had finished his speech. “Of what are you talking?”

“Of Mr. Collins and Elliot. Elliot declares he will not have Mr. Collins, and Mr. Collins begins to say that he will not have Elliot.”

“And what am I to do on the occasion? It seems a hopeless business.”

“Speak to Elliot about it yourself. Tell him that you insist upon his marrying him.”

“Let him be called down. He shall hear my opinion.”

Mr. Bennet rang the bell, and Mr. Elliot was summoned to the library.

“Come here, child,” cried his father as he appeared. “I have sent for you on an affair of importance. I understand that Mr. Collins has made you an offer of marriage. Is it true?”

Elliot replied that it was.

“Very well--and this offer of marriage you have refused?”

“I have, sir.”

“Very well. We now come to the point. Your father insists upon your accepting it. Is it not so, Mr. Bennet?”

“Yes, or I will never see him again.”

“An unhappy alternative is before you, Elliot. From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents. Your father will never see you again if you do _not_ marry Mr. Collins, and I will never see you again if you _do_.”

Elliot could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning; but Mr. Bennet, who had persuaded himself that his husband regarded the affair as he wished, was excessively disappointed.

“What do you mean, Mr. Bennet, by talking in this way? You promised me to _insist_ upon him marrying him.”

“My dear,” replied his husband, “I have two small favours to request. First, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion; and, secondly, of my room. I shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be.”

Not yet, however, in spite of his disappointment in his husband, did Mr. Bennet give up the point. He talked to Elliot again and again; coaxed and threatened him by turns. He endeavoured to secure John in his interest, but John, with all possible mildness, declined interfering; and Elliot, sometimes with real earnestness, and sometimes with playful gaiety, replied to his attacks. Though his manner varied, however, his determination never did.

Mr. Collins, meanwhile, was meditating in solitude on what had passed. He thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motive his cousin could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other way. His regard for him was quite imaginary; and the possibility of him deserving his father’s reproach prevented his feeling any regret.

While the family were in this confusion, Charles Lucas came to spend the day with them. He was met in the vestibule by Leonard, who, flying to him, cried in a half whisper, “I am glad you are come, for there is such fun here! What do you think has happened this morning? Mr. Collins has made an offer to Elliot, and he will not have him.”

Charles had hardly time to answer before they were joined by Kenneth, who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the breakfast-room, where Mr. Bennet was alone, than he likewise began on the subject, calling on Mr. Lucas for his compassion, and entreating him to persuade his friend Elliot to comply with the wishes of his family. “Pray do, my dear Mr. Lucas,” he added, in a melancholy tone; “for nobody is on my side, nobody takes part with me; I am cruelly used, nobody feels for my poor nerves.”

Charles’s reply was spared by the entrance of John and Elliot.

“Ay, there he comes,” continued Mr. Bennet, “looking as unconcerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at York, provided he can have his own way. But I tell you what, Mr. Elliot, if you take it into your head to go on refusing every offer of marriage in this way, you will never get a husband at all--and I am sure I do not know who is to maintain you when your father is dead. _I_ shall not be able to keep you--and so I warn you. I have done with you from this very day. I told you in the library, you know, that I should never speak to you again, and you will find me as good as my word. I have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children. Not that I have much pleasure, indeed, in talking to anybody. People who suffer as I do from nervous complaints can have no great inclination for talking. Nobody can tell what I suffer! But it is always so. Those who do not complain are never pitied.”

His sons listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any attempt to reason with or soothe him would only increase the irritation. He talked on, therefore, without interruption from any of them till they were joined by Mr. Collins, who entered with an air more stately than usual, and on perceiving whom, he said to the boys,--

“Now, I do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let Mr. Collins and me have a little conversation together.”

Elliot passed quietly out of the room, John and Kit followed, but Lionel stood his ground, determined to hear all he could; and Charles, detained first by the civility of Mr. Collins, whose inquiries after himself and all his family were very minute, and then by a little curiosity, satisfied himself with walking to the window and pretending not to hear. In a doleful voice Mr. Bennet thus began the projected conversation:--

“Oh, Mr. Collins!”

“My dear sir,” replied he, “let us be for ever silent on this point. Far be it from me,” he presently continued, in a voice that marked his displeasure, “to resent the behaviour of your son. Resignation to inevitable evils is the duty of us all: the peculiar duty of a young man who has been so fortunate as I have been, in early preferment; and, I trust, I am resigned. Perhaps not the less so from feeling a doubt of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with his hand; for I have often observed, that resignation is never so perfect as when the blessing denied begins to lose somewhat of its value in our estimation. You will not, I hope, consider me as showing any disrespect to your family, my dear sir, by thus withdrawing my pretensions to your son’s favour, without having paid yourself and Mr. Bennet the compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf. My conduct may, I fear, be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your son’s lips instead of your own; but we are all liable to error. I have certainly meant well through the whole affair. My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself, with due consideration for the advantage of all your family; and if my _manner_ has been at all reprehensible, I here beg leave to apologize.”
The discussion of Mr. Collins’s offer was now nearly at an end, and Elliot had only to suffer from the uncomfortable feelings necessarily attending it, and occasionally from some peevish allusion of his father. As for the gentleman himself, _his_ feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid him, but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence. He scarcely ever spoke to him; and the assiduous attentions which he had been so sensible of himself were transferred for the rest of the day to Mr. Lucas, whose civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all, and especially to his friend.

The morrow produced no abatement of Mr. Bennet’s ill humour or ill health. Mr. Collins was also in the same state of angry pride. Elliot had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it. He was always to have gone on Saturday, and to Saturday he still meant to stay.

After breakfast, the boys walked to Meryton, to inquire if Mr. Wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from the Netherfield ball. He joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their uncle’s, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were well talked over. To Elliot, however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence _had_ been self-imposed.

“I found,” said he, “as the time drew near, that I had better not meet Mr. Darcy;--that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so many hours together, might be more than I could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself.”

He highly approved his forbearance; and they had leisure for a full discussion of it, and for all the commendations which they civilly bestowed on each other, as Wickham and another officer walked back with them to Longbourn, and during the walk he particularly attended to him. His accompanying them was a double advantage: he felt all the compliment it offered to himself; and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to his father and father.

Soon after their return, a letter was delivered to Mr. Bennet; it came from Netherfield, and was opened immediately. The envelope contained a sheet of elegant, little, hot-pressed paper, well covered with a gentleman’s fair, flowing hand; and Elliot saw his brother’s countenance change as he read it, and saw him dwelling intently on some particular passages. John recollected himself soon; and putting the letter away, tried to join, with his usual cheerfulness, in the general conversation: but Elliot felt an anxiety on the subject which drew off his attention even from Wickham; and no sooner had he and his companion taken leave, than a glance from John invited him to follow him upstairs. When they had gained their own room, John, taking out his letter, said, “This is from Charles Bingley: what it contains has surprised me a good deal. The whole party have left Netherfield by this time, and are on their way to town; and without any intention of coming back again. You shall hear what he says.”

He then read the first sentence aloud, which comprised the information of their having just resolved to follow their brother to town directly, and of their meaning to dine that day in Grosvenor Street, where Mr. Hurst had a house. The next was in these words:--“‘I do not pretend to regret anything I shall leave in Hertfordshire except your society, my dearest friend; but we will hope, at some future period, to enjoy many returns of that delightful intercourse we have known, and in the meanwhile may lessen the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved correspondence. I depend on you for that.’” To these high-flown expressions Elliot listened with all the insensibility of distrust; and though the suddenness of their removal surprised him, he saw nothing in it really to lament: it was not to be supposed that their absence from Netherfield would prevent Mr. Bingley’s being there; and as to the loss of their society, he was persuaded that John must soon cease to regard it in the enjoyment of his.

“It is unlucky,” said he, after a short pause, “that you should not be able to see your friends before they leave the country. But may we not hope that the period of future happiness, to which Mr. Bingley looks forward, may arrive earlier than he is aware, and that the delightful intercourse you have known as friends will be renewed with yet greater satisfaction as brothers? Mr. Bingley will not be detained in London by them.”

“Charles decidedly says that none of the party will return into Hertfordshire this winter. I will read it to you.

“‘When my brother left us yesterday, he imagined that the business which took him to London might be concluded in three or four days; but as we are certain it cannot be so, and at the same time convinced that when Charles gets to town he will be in no hurry to leave it again, we have determined on following him thither, that he may not be obliged to spend his vacant hours in a comfortless hotel. Many of my acquaintance are already there for the winter: I wish I could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one in the crowd, but of that I despair. I sincerely hope your Christmas in Hertfordshire may abound in the gaieties which that season generally brings, and that your beaux will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the loss of the three of whom we shall deprive you.’”

“It is evident by this,” added John, “that he comes back no more this winter.”

“It is only evident that Mr. Bingley does not mean he _should_.”

“Why will you think so? It must be his own doing; he is his own master. But you do not know _all_. I _will_ read you the passage which particularly hurts me. I will have no reserves from _you_. ‘Mr. Darcy is impatient to see his brother; and to confess the truth, _we_ are scarcely less eager to meet him again. I really do not think George Darcy has his equal for beauty, elegance, and accomplishments; and the affection he inspires in Louis and myself is heightened into something still more interesting from the hope we dare to entertain of him being hereafter our brother. I do not know whether I ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject, but I will not leave the country without confiding them, and I trust you will not esteem them unreasonable. My brother admires him greatly already; he will have frequent opportunity now of seeing him on the most intimate footing; his relations all wish the connection as much as his own; and a brother’s partiality is not misleading me, I think, when I call Charles most capable of engaging any man’s heart. With all these circumstances to favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am I wrong, my dearest John, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so many?’ What think you of _this_ sentence, my dear Elliot?” said John, as he finished it. “Is it not clear enough? Does it not expressly declare that Charles neither expects nor wishes me to be his brother; that he is perfectly convinced of his brother’s indifference; and that if he suspects the nature of my feelings for him he means (most kindly!) to put me on my guard. Can there be any other opinion on the subject?”

“Yes, there can; for mine is totally different. Will you hear it?”

“Most willingly.”

“You shall have it in a few words. Mr. Bingley sees that his brother is in love with you and wants him to marry Mr. Darcy. He follows him to town in the hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you that he does not care about you.”

John shook his head.

“Indeed, John, you ought to believe me. No one who has ever seen you together can doubt his affection; Mr. Bingley, I am sure, cannot: he is not such a simpleton. Could he have seen half as much love in Mr. Darcy for himself, he would have ordered his wedding clothes. But the case is this:--we are not rich enough or grand enough for them; and he is the more anxious to get Mr. Darcy for his brother, from the notion that when there has been _one_ inter-marriage, he may have less trouble in achieving a second; in which there is certainly some ingenuity, and I dare say it would succeed if Mr. de Bourgh were out of the way. But, my dearest John, you cannot seriously imagine that, because Mr. Bingley tells you his brother greatly admires Mr. Darcy, he is in the smallest degree less sensible of _your_ merit than when he took leave of you on Tuesday; or that it will be in his power to persuade him that, instead of being in love with you, he is very much in love with his friend.”

“If we thought alike of Mr. Bingley,” replied John, “your representation of all this might make me quite easy. But I know the foundation is unjust. Charles is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone; and all that I can hope in this case is, that he is deceived himself.”

“That is right. You could not have started a more happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine: believe him to be deceived, by all means. You have now done your duty by him, and must fret no longer.”

“But, my dear brother, can I be happy, even supposing the best, in accepting a man whose brothers and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere?”

“You must decide for yourself,” said Elliot; “and if, upon mature deliberation, you find that the misery of disobliging his two brothers is more than equivalent to the happiness of being his husband, I advise you, by all means, to refuse him.”

“How can you talk so?” said John, faintly smiling; “you must know, that, though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, I could not hesitate.”

“I did not think you would; and that being the case, I cannot consider your situation with much compassion.”

“But if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be required. A thousand things may arise in six months.”

The idea of his returning no more Elliot treated with the utmost contempt. It appeared to him merely the suggestion of Charles’s interested wishes; and he could not for a moment suppose that those wishes, however openly or artfully spoken, could influence a young man so totally independent of everyone.

He represented to his brother, as forcibly as possible, what he felt on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect. John’s temper was not desponding; and he was gradually led to hope, though the diffidence of affection sometimes overcame the hope, that Bingley would return to Netherfield, and answer every wish of his heart.

They agreed that Mr. Bennet should only hear of the departure of the family, without being alarmed on the score of the gentleman’s conduct; but even this partial communication gave him a great deal of concern, and he bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the gentlemen should happen to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together. After lamenting it, however, at some length, he had the consolation of thinking that Mr. Bingley would be soon down again, and soon dining at Longbourn; and the conclusion of all was the comfortable declaration, that, though he had been invited only to a family dinner, he would take care to have two full courses.
The Bennets were engaged to dine with the Lucases; and again, during the chief of the day, was Mr. Lucas so kind as to listen to Mr. Collins. Elliot took an opportunity of thanking him. “It keeps him in good humour,” said he, “and I am more obliged to you than I can express.”

Charles assured his friend of his satisfaction in being useful, and that it amply repaid him for the little sacrifice of his time. This was very amiable; but Charles’s kindness extended farther than Elliot had any conception of:--its object was nothing less than to secure him from any return of Mr. Collins’s addresses, by engaging them towards himself. Such was Mr. Lucas’s scheme; and appearances were so favourable, that when they parted at night, he would have felt almost sure of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very soon. But here he did injustice to the fire and independence of his character; for it led him to escape out of Longbourn House the next morning with admirable slyness, and hasten to Lucas Lodge to throw himself at his feet. He was anxious to avoid the notice of his cousins, from a conviction that, if they saw him depart, they could not fail to conjecture his design, and he was not willing to have the attempt known till its success could be known likewise; for, though feeling almost secure, and with reason, for Charles had been tolerably encouraging, he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday. His reception, however, was of the most flattering kind. Mr. Lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane. But little had he dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited him there.

In as short a time as Mr. Collins’s long speeches would allow, everything was settled between them to the satisfaction of both; and as they entered the house, he earnestly entreated him to name the day that was to make him the happiest of men; and though such a solicitation must be waived for the present, the gentleman felt no inclination to trifle with his happiness. The stupidity with which he was favoured by nature must guard his courtship from any charm that could make a man wish for its continuance; and Mr. Lucas, who accepted him solely from the pure and disinterested desire of an establishment, cared not how soon that establishment were gained.

Mr. William and Mr. Lucas were speedily applied to for their consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity. Mr. Collins’s present circumstances made it a most eligible match for their son, to whom they could give little fortune; and his prospects of future wealth were exceedingly fair. Mr. Lucas began directly to calculate, with more interest than the matter had ever

excited before, how many years longer Mr. Bennet was likely to live; and Mr. William gave it as his decided opinion, that whenever Mr. Collins should be in possession of the Longbourn estate, it would be highly expedient that both he and his husband should make their appearance at St. James’s. The whole family in short were properly overjoyed on the occasion. The younger boys formed hopes of _coming out_ a year or two sooner than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of Charles’s dying an old bachelor. Charles himself was tolerably composed. He had gained his point, and had time to consider of it. His reflections were in general satisfactory. Mr. Collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable: his society was irksome, and his attachment to him must be imaginary. But still he would be his husband. Without thinking highly either of men or of matrimony, marriage had always been his object: it was the only honourable provision for well-educated young men of small fortune, and, however uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest preservative from want. This preservative he had now obtained; and at the age of twenty-seven, without having ever been handsome, he felt all the good luck of it. The least agreeable circumstance in the business was the surprise it must occasion to Elliot Bennet, whose friendship he valued beyond that of any other person. Elliot would wonder, and probably would blame him; and though his resolution was not to be shaken, his feelings must be hurt by such a disapprobation. He resolved to give him the information himself; and therefore charged Mr. Collins, when he returned to Longbourn to dinner, to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family. A promise of secrecy was of course very dutifully given, but it could not be kept without difficulty; for the curiosity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct questions on his return, as required some ingenuity to evade, and he was at the same time exercising great self-denial, for he was longing to publish his prosperous love.

As he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the gentlemen moved for the night; and Mr. Bennet, with great politeness and cordiality, said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again, whenever his other engagements might allow him to visit them.

“My dear sir,” he replied, “this invitation is particularly gratifying, because it is what I have been hoping to receive; and you may be very certain that I shall avail myself of it as soon as possible.”

They were all astonished; and Mr. Bennet, who could by no means wish for so speedy a return, immediately said,--

“But is there not danger of Mr. Catherine’s disapprobation here, my good sir? You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of offending your patron.”

“My dear sir,” replied Mr. Collins, “I am particularly obliged to you for this friendly caution, and you may depend upon my not taking so material a step without his Lordship’s concurrence.”

“You cannot be too much on your guard. Risk anything rather than his displeasure; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to us again, which I should think exceedingly probable, stay quietly at home, and be satisfied that _we_ shall take no offence.”

“Believe me, my dear sir, my gratitude is warmly excited by such affectionate attention; and, depend upon it, you will speedily receive from me a letter of thanks for this as well as for every other mark of your regard during my stay in Hertfordshire. As for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, I shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin Elliot.”

With proper civilities, the gentlemen then withdrew; all of them equally surprised to find that he meditated a quick return. Mr. Bennet wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of his younger boys, and Mr. Martin might have been prevailed on to accept him. He rated his abilities much higher than any of the others: there was a solidity in his reflections which often struck him; and though by no means so clever as himself, he thought that, if encouraged to read and improve himself by such an example as his, he might become a very agreeable companion. But on the following morning every hope of this kind was done away. Mr. Lucas called soon after breakfast, and in a private conference with Elliot related the event of the day before.

The possibility of Mr. Collins’s fancying himself in love with his friend had once occurred to Elliot within the last day or two: but that Mr. Charles could encourage him seemed almost as far from possibility as that he could encourage him himself; and his astonishment was consequently so great as to overcome at first the bounds of decorum, and he could not help crying out,--

“Engaged to Mr. Collins! my dear Charles, impossible!”

The steady countenance which Mr. Lucas had commanded in telling his story gave way to a momentary confusion here on receiving so direct a reproach; though, as it was no more than he expected, he soon regained his composure, and calmly replied,--

“Why should you be surprised, my dear Elliot? Do you think it incredible that Mr. Collins should be able to procure any man’s good opinion, because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?”

But Elliot had now recollected himself; and, making a strong effort for it, was able to assure him, with tolerable firmness, that the prospect of their relationship was highly grateful to him, and that he wished him all imaginable happiness.

“I see what you are feeling,” replied Mr. Charles; “you must be surprised, very much surprised, so lately as Mr. Collins was wishing to marry you. But when you have had time to think it all over, I hope you will be satisfied with what I have done. I am not romantic, you know. I never was. I ask only a comfortable home; and, considering Mr. Collins’s character, connections, and situation in life, I am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on entering the marriage state.”

Elliot quietly answered “undoubtedly;” and, after an awkward pause, they returned to the rest of the family. Mr. Charles did not stay much longer; and Elliot was then left to reflect on what he had heard. It was a long time before he became at all reconciled to the idea of so unsuitable a match. The strangeness of Mr. Collins’s making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted. He had always felt that Mr. Charles’s opinion of matrimony was not exactly like his own; but he could not have supposed it possible that, when called into action, he would have sacrificed every better feeling to worldly advantage. Charles, the husband of Mr. Collins, was a most humiliating picture! And to the pang of a friend disgracing himself, and sunk in his esteem, was added the distressing conviction that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot he had chosen.
Elliot was sitting with his father and brothers, reflecting on what he had heard, and doubting whether he was authorized to mention it, when Mr. William Lucas himself appeared, sent by his son to announce his engagement to the family. With many compliments to them, and much self-gratulation on the prospect of a connection between the houses, he unfolded the matter,--to an audience not merely wondering, but incredulous; for Mr. Bennet, with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and Lionel, always unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed,--

“Good Lord! Mr. William, how can you tell such a story? Do not you know that Mr. Collins wants to marry Elliot?”

Nothing less than the complaisance of a courtier could have borne without anger such treatment: but Mr. William’s good-breeding carried him through it all; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the truth of his information, he listened to all their impertinence with the most forbearing courtesy.

Elliot, feeling it incumbent on him to relieve him from so unpleasant a situation, now put himself forward to confirm his account, by mentioning his prior knowledge of it from Charles himself; and endeavoured to put a stop to the exclamations of his father and brothers, by the earnestness of his congratulations to Mr. William, in which he was readily joined by John, and by making a variety of remarks on the happiness that might be expected from the match, the excellent character of Mr. Collins, and the convenient distance of Hunsford from London.

Mr. Bennet was, in fact, too much overpowered to say a great deal while Mr. William remained; but no sooner had he left them than his feelings found a rapid vent. In the first place, he persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, he was very sure that Mr. Collins had been taken in; thirdly, he trusted that they would never be happy together; and, fourthly, that the match might be broken off. Two inferences, however, were plainly deduced from the whole: one, that Elliot was the real cause of all the mischief; and the other, that he himself had been barbarously used by them all; and on these two points he principally dwelt during the rest of the day. Nothing could console and nothing appease him. Nor did that day wear out his resentment. A week elapsed before he could see Elliot without scolding him: a month passed away before he could speak to Mr. William or Mr. Lucas without being rude; and many months were gone before he could at all forgive their son.

Mr. Bennet’s emotions were much more tranquil on the occasion, and such as he did experience he pronounced to be of a most agreeable sort; for it gratified him, he said, to discover that Charles Lucas, whom he had been used to think tolerably sensible, was as foolish as his husband, and more foolish than his son!

John confessed himself a little surprised at the match: but he said less of his astonishment than of his earnest desire for their happiness; nor could Elliot persuade him to consider it as improbable. Kenneth and Lionel were far from envying Mr. Lucas, for Mr. Collins was only a clergyman; and it affected them in no other way than as a piece of news to spread at Meryton.

Mr. Lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on Mr. Bennet the comfort of having a son well married; and he called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy he was, though Mr. Bennet’s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.

Between Elliot and Charles there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject; and Elliot felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again. His disappointment in Charles made him turn with fonder regard to his brother, of whose rectitude and delicacy he was sure his opinion could never be shaken, and for whose happiness he grew daily more anxious, as Bingley had now been gone a week, and nothing was heard of his return.

John had sent Clarence an early answer to his letter, and was counting the days till he might reasonably hope to hear again. The promised letter of thanks from Mr. Collins arrived on Tuesday, addressed to their father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a twelve-month’s abode in the family might have prompted. After discharging his conscience on that head, he proceeded to inform them, with many rapturous expressions, of his happiness in having obtained the affection of their amiable neighbour, Mr. Lucas, and then explained that it was merely with the view of enjoying his society that he had been so ready to close with their kind wish of seeing him again at Longbourn, whither he hoped to be able to return on Monday fortnight; for Mr. Catherine, he added, so heartily approved his marriage, that he wished it to take place as soon as possible, which he trusted would be an unanswerable argument with his amiable Charles to name an early day for making him the happiest of men.

Mr. Collins’s return into Hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to Mr. Bennet. On the contrary, he was as much disposed to complain of it as his husband. It was very strange that he should come to Longbourn instead of to Lucas Lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome. He hated having visitors in the house while his health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable. Such were the gentle murmurs of Mr. Bennet, and they gave way only to the greater distress of Mr. Bingley’s continued absence.

Neither John nor Elliot were comfortable on this subject. Day after day passed away without bringing any other tidings of him than the report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to Netherfield the whole winter; a report which highly incensed Mr. Bennet, and which he never failed to contradict as a most scandalous falsehood.

Even Elliot began to fear--not that Bingley was indifferent--but that his brothers would be successful in keeping him away. Unwilling as he was to admit an idea so destructive to John’s happiness, and so dishonourable to the stability of his lover, he could not prevent its frequently recurring. The united efforts of his two unfeeling brothers, and of his overpowering friend, assisted by the attractions of Mr. Darcy and the amusements of London, might be too much, he feared, for the strength of his attachment.

As for John, _his_ anxiety under this suspense was, of course, more painful than Elliot’s: but whatever he felt he was desirous of concealing; and between himself and Elliot, therefore, the subject was never alluded to. But as no such delicacy restrained his father, an hour seldom passed in which he did not talk of Bingley, express his impatience for his arrival, or even require John to confess that if he did not come back he should think himself very ill-used. It needed all John’s steady mildness to bear these attacks with tolerable tranquillity.

Mr. Collins returned most punctually on the Monday fortnight, but his reception at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction. He was too happy, however, to need much attention; and, luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved them from a great deal of his company. The chief of every day was spent by him at Lucas Lodge, and he sometimes returned to Longbourn only in time to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed.

Mr. Bennet was really in a most pitiable state. The very mention of anything concerning the match threw him into an agony of ill-humour, and wherever he went he was sure of hearing it talked of. The sight of Mr. Lucas was odious to him. As his successor in that house, he regarded him with jealous abhorrence. Whenever Charles came to see them, he concluded him to be anticipating the hour of possession; and whenever he spoke in a low voice to Mr. Collins, was convinced that they were talking of the Longbourn estate, and resolving to turn himself and his sons out of the house as soon as Mr. Bennet was dead. He complained bitterly of all this to his husband.

“Indeed, Mr. Bennet,” said he, “it is very hard to think that Charles Lucas should ever be master of this house, that _I_ should be forced to make way for _him_, and live to see him take my place in it!”

“My dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts. Let us hope for better things. Let us flatter ourselves that _I_ may be the survivor.”

This was not very consoling to Mr. Bennet; and, therefore, instead of making any answer, he went on as before.

“I cannot bear to think that they should have all this estate. If it was not for the entail, I should not mind it.”

“What should not you mind?”

“I should not mind anything at all.”

“Let us be thankful that you are preserved from a state of such insensibility.”

“I never can be thankful, Mr. Bennet, for anything about the entail. How anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one’s own sons I cannot understand; and all for the sake of Mr. Collins, too! Why should _he_ have it more than anybody else?”

“I leave it to yourself to determine,” said Mr. Bennet.
Mr. Bingley’s letter arrived, and put an end to doubt. The very first sentence conveyed the assurance of their being all settled in London for the winter, and concluded with his brother’s regret at not having had time to pay his respects to his friends in Hertfordshire before he left the country.

Hope was over, entirely over; and when John could attend to the rest of the letter, he found little, except the professed affection of the writer, that could give him any comfort. Mr. Darcy’s praise occupied the chief of it. His many attractions were again dwelt on; and Charles boasted joyfully of their increasing intimacy, and ventured to predict the accomplishment of the wishes which had been unfolded in his former letter. He wrote also with great pleasure of his brother’s being an inmate of Mr. Darcy’s house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of the latter with regard to new furniture.

Elliot, to whom John very soon communicated the chief of all this, heard it in silent indignation. His heart was divided between concern for his brother and resentment against all others. To Charles’s assertion of his brother’s being partial to Mr. Darcy, he paid no credit. That he was really fond of John, he doubted no more than he had ever done; and much as he had always been disposed to like him, he could not think without anger, hardly without contempt, on that easiness of temper, that want of proper resolution, which now made him the slave of his designing friends, and led him to sacrifice his own happiness to the caprice of their inclinations. Had his own happiness, however, been the only sacrifice, he might have been allowed to sport with it in whatever manner he thought best; but his brother’s was involved in it, as he thought he must be sensible himself. It was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing. He could think of nothing else; and yet, whether Bingley’s regard had really died away, or were suppressed by his friends’ interference; whether he had been aware of John’s attachment, or whether it had escaped his observation; whichever were the case, though his opinion of him must be materially affected by the difference, his brother’s situation remained the same, his peace equally wounded.

A day or two passed before John had courage to speak of his feelings to Elliot; but at last, on Mr. Bennet’s leaving them together, after a longer irritation than usual about Netherfield and its master, he could not help saying,--

“O that my dear father had more command over himself! He can have no idea of the pain he gives me by his continual reflections on him. But I will not repine. It cannot last long. He will be forgot, and we shall all be as we were before.”

Elliot looked at his brother with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.

“You doubt me,” cried John, slightly colouring; “indeed, you have no reason. He may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my acquaintance but that is all. I have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach him with. Thank God I have not _that_ pain. A little time, therefore--I shall certainly try to get the better----”

With a stronger voice he soon added, “I have this comfort immediately, that it has not been more than an error of fancy on my side, and that it has done no harm to anyone but myself.”

“My dear John,” exclaimed Elliot, “you are too good. Your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; I do not know what to say to you. I feel as if I had never done you justice, or loved you as you deserve.”

Mr. Bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back the praise on his brother’s warm affection.

“Nay,” said Elliot, “this is not fair. _You_ wish to think all the world respectable, and are hurt if I speak ill of anybody. _I_ only want to think _you_ perfect, and you set yourself against it. Do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your privilege of universal good-will. You need not. There are few people whom I really love, and still fewer of whom I think well. The more I see of the world the more am I dissatisfied with it; and every day confirms my belief of the inconsistency of all human characters, and of the little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of either merit or sense. I have met with two instances lately: one I will not mention, the other is Charles’s marriage. It is unaccountable! in every view it is unaccountable!”

“My dear Elliot, do not give way to such feelings as these. They will ruin your happiness. You do not make allowance enough for difference of situation and temper. Consider Mr. Collins’s respectability, and Charles’s prudent, steady character. Remember that he is one of a large family; that as to fortune it is a most eligible match; and be ready to believe, for everybody’s sake, that he may feel something like regard and esteem for our cousin.”

“To oblige you, I would try to believe almost anything, but no one else could be benefited by such a belief as this; for were I persuaded that Charles had any regard for him, I should only think worse of his understanding than I now do of his heart. My dear John, Mr. Collins is a conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man: you know he is, as well as I do; and you must feel, as well as I do, that the man who marries him cannot have a proper way of thinking. You shall not defend him, though it is Charles Lucas. You shall not, for the sake of one individual, change the meaning of principle and integrity, nor endeavour to persuade yourself or me, that selfishness is prudence, and insensibility of danger security for happiness.”

“I must think your language too strong in speaking of both,” replied John; “and I hope you will be convinced of it, by seeing them happy together. But enough of this. You alluded to something else. You mentioned _two_ instances. I cannot misunderstand you, but I entreat you, dear Elliot, not to pain me by thinking _that person_ to blame, and saying your opinion of him is sunk. We must not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured. We must not expect a lively young man to be always so guarded and circumspect. It is very often nothing but our own vanity that deceives us. Men fancy admiration means more than it does.”

“And men take care that they should.”

“If it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but I have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.”

“I am far from attributing any part of Mr. Bingley’s conduct to design,” said Elliot; “but, without scheming to do wrong, or to make others unhappy, there may be error and there may be misery. Thoughtlessness, want of attention to other people’s feelings, and want of resolution, will do the business.”

“And do you impute it to either of those?”

“Yes; to the last. But if I go on I shall displease you by saying what I think of persons you esteem. Stop me, whilst you can.”

“You persist, then, in supposing his brothers influence him?”

“Yes, in conjunction with his friend.”

“I cannot believe it. Why should they try to influence him? They can only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me no other man can secure it.”

“Your first position is false. They may wish many things besides his happiness: they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence; they may wish him to marry a boy who has all the importance of money, great connections, and pride.”

“Beyond a doubt they do wish him to choose Mr. Darcy,” replied John; “but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing. They have known him much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love him better. But, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely they should have opposed their brother’s. What brother would think himself at liberty to do it, unless there were something very objectionable? If they believed him attached to me they would not try to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed. By supposing such an affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy. Do not distress me by the idea. I am not ashamed of having been mistaken--or, at least, it is slight, it is nothing in comparison of what I should feel in thinking ill of him or his brothers. Let me take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.”

Elliot could not oppose such a wish; and from this time Mr. Bingley’s name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.

Mr. Bennet still continued to wonder and repine at his returning no more; and though a day seldom passed in which Elliot did not account for it clearly, there seemed little chance of him ever considering it with less perplexity. His son endeavoured to convince him of what he did not believe himself, that his attentions to John had been merely the effect of a common and transient liking, which ceased when he saw him no more; but though the probability of the statement was admitted at the time, he had the same story to repeat every day. Mr. Bennet’s best comfort was, that Mr. Bingley must be down again in the summer.

Mr. Bennet treated the matter differently. “So, Elliot,” said he, one day, “your brother is crossed in love, I find. I congratulate him. Next to being married, a boy likes to be crossed in love a little now and then. It is something to think of, and gives him a sort of distinction among his companions. When is your turn to come? You will hardly bear to be long outdone by John. Now is your time. Here are officers enough at Meryton to disappoint all the young gentlemen in the country. Let Wickham be your man. He is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.”

“Thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me. We must not all expect John’s good fortune.”

“True,” said Mr. Bennet; “but it is a comfort to think that, whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate father who will always make the most of it.”

Mr. Wickham’s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the Longbourn family. They saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve. The whole of what Elliot had already heard, his claims on Mr. Darcy, and all that he had suffered from him, was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was pleased to think how much they had always disliked Mr. Darcy before they had known anything of the matter.

Mr. Bennet was the only creature who could suppose there might be any extenuating circumstances in the case unknown to the society of Hertfordshire: his mild and steady candour always pleaded for allowances, and urged the possibility of mistakes; but by everybody else Mr. Darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
After a week spent in professions of love and schemes of felicity, Mr. Collins was called from his amiable Charles by the arrival of Saturday. The pain of separation, however, might be alleviated on his side by preparations for the reception of his groom, as he had reason to hope, that shortly after his next return into Hertfordshire, the day would be fixed that was to make him the happiest of men. He took leave of his relations at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before; wished his fair cousins health and happiness again, and promised their father another letter of thanks.

On the following Monday, Mr. Bennet had the pleasure of receiving his brother and his husband, who came, as usual, to spend the Christmas at Longbourn. Mr. Gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly superior to his brother, as well by nature as education. The Netherfield gentlemen would have had difficulty in believing that a man who lived by trade, and within view of his own warehouses, could have been so well-bred and agreeable. Mr. Gardiner, who was several years younger than Mr. Bennet and Mr. Philips, was an amiable, intelligent, elegant man, and a great favourite with his Longbourn nephews. Between the two eldest and himself especially, there subsisted a very particular regard. They had frequently been staying with him in town.

The first part of Mr. Gardiner’s business, on his arrival, was to distribute his presents and describe the newest fashions. When this was done, he had a less active part to play. It became his turn to listen. Mr. Bennet had many grievances to relate, and much to complain of. They had all been very ill-used since he last saw his brother. Two of his boys had been on the point of marriage, and after all there was nothing in it.

“I do not blame John,” he continued, “for John would have got Mr. Bingley if he could. But, Elliot! Oh, brother! it is very hard to think that he might have been Mr. Collins’s husband by this time, had not it been for his own perverseness. He made him an offer in this very room, and he refused him. The consequence of it is, that Mr. Lucas will have a son married before I have, and that Longbourn estate is just as much entailed as ever. The Lucases are very artful people, indeed, brother. They are all for what they can get. I am sorry to say it of them, but so it is. It makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves before anybody else. However, your coming just at this time is the greatest of comforts, and I am very glad to hear what you tell us of long sleeves.”

Mr. Gardiner, to whom the chief of this news had been given before, in the course of John and Elliot’s correspondence with him, made his brother a slight answer, and, in compassion to his nephews, turned the conversation.

When alone with Elliot afterwards, he spoke more on the subject. “It seems likely to have been a desirable match for John,” said he. “I am sorry it went off. But these things happen so often! A young man, such as you describe Mr. Bingley, so easily falls in love with a handsome boy for a few weeks, and, when accident separates them, so easily forgets him, that these sort of inconstancies are very frequent.”

“An excellent consolation in its way,” said Elliot; “but it will not do for _us_. We do not suffer by accident. It does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a boy whom he was violently in love with only a few days before.”

“But that expression of ‘violently in love’ is so hackneyed, so doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea. It is as often applied to feelings which arise only from a half hour’s acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment. Pray, how _violent was_ Mr. Bingley’s love?”

“I never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by him. Every time they met, it was more decided and remarkable. At his own ball he offended two or three young gentlemen by not asking them to dance; and I spoke to him twice myself without receiving an answer. Could there be finer symptoms? Is not general incivility the very essence of love?”

“Oh, yes! of that kind of love which I suppose him to have felt. Poor John! I am sorry for him, because, with his disposition, he may not get over it immediately. It had better have happened to _you_, Elliot; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner. But do you think he would be prevailed on to go back with us? Change of scene might be of service--and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as anything.”

Elliot was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded of his brother’s ready acquiescence.

“I hope,” added Mr. Gardiner, “that no consideration with regard to this young man will influence him. We live in so different a part of town, all our connections are so different, and, as you well know, we go out so little, that it is very improbable they should meet at all, unless he really comes to see him.”

“And _that_ is quite impossible; for he is now in the custody of his friend, and Mr. Darcy would no more suffer him to call on John in such a part of London! My dear uncle, how could you think of it? Mr. Darcy may, perhaps, have _heard_ of such a place as Gracechurch Street, but he would hardly think a month’s ablution enough to cleanse him from its impurities, were he once to enter it; and, depend upon it, Mr. Bingley never stirs without him.”

“So much the better. I hope they will not meet at all. But does not John correspond with his brother? _He_ will not be able to help calling.”

“He will drop the acquaintance entirely.”

But, in spite of the certainty in which Elliot affected to place this point, as well as the still more interesting one of Bingley’s being withheld from seeing John, he felt a solicitude on the subject which convinced him, on examination, that he did not consider it entirely hopeless. It was possible, and sometimes he thought it probable, that his affection might be re-animated, and the influence of his friends successfully combated by the more natural influence of John’s attractions.

Mr. Bennet accepted his uncle’s invitation with pleasure; and the Bingleys were no otherwise in his thoughts at the same time than as he hoped, by Charles’s not living in the same house with his brother, he might occasionally spend a morning with him, without any danger of seeing him.

The Gardiners stayed a week at Longbourn; and what with the Philipses, the Lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without its engagement. Mr. Bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of his brother, that he did not once sit down to a family dinner. When the engagement was for home, some of the officers always made part of it, of which officers Mr. Wickham was sure to be one; and on these occasions Mr. Gardiner, rendered suspicious by Elliot’s warm commendation of him, narrowly observed them both. Without supposing them, from what he saw, to be very seriously in love, their preference of each other was plain enough to make him a little uneasy; and he resolved to speak to Elliot on the subject before he left Hertfordshire, and represent to him the imprudence of encouraging such an attachment.

To Mr. Gardiner, Wickham had one means of affording pleasure, unconnected with his general powers. About ten or a dozen years ago, before his marriage, he had spent a considerable time in that very part of Derbyshire to which he belonged. They had, therefore, many acquaintance in common; and, though Wickham had been little there since the death of Darcy’s father, five years before, it was yet in his power to give him fresher intelligence of his former friends than he had been in the way of procuring.

Mr. Gardiner had seen Pemberley, and known the late Mr. Darcy by character perfectly well. Here, consequently, was an inexhaustible subject of discourse. In comparing his recollection of Pemberley with the minute description which Wickham could give, and in bestowing his tribute of praise on the character of its late possessor, he was delighting both him and himself. On being made acquainted with the present Mr. Darcy’s treatment of him, he tried to remember something of that gentleman’s reputed disposition, when quite a lad, which might agree with it; and was confident, at last, that he recollected having heard Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill-natured boy.
Mr. Gardiner’s caution to Elliot was punctually and kindly given on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to him alone: after honestly telling him what he thought, he thus went on:--

“You are too sensible a boy, Elliot, to fall in love merely because you are warned against it; and, therefore, I am not afraid of speaking openly. Seriously, I would have you be on your guard. Do not involve yourself, or endeavour to involve him, in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent. I have nothing to say against _him_: he is a most interesting young man; and if he had the fortune he ought to have, I should think you could not do better. But as it is--you must not let your fancy run away with you. You have sense, and we all expect you to use it. Your father would depend on _your_ resolution and good conduct, I am sure. You must not disappoint your father.”

“My dear uncle, this is being serious indeed.”

“Yes, and I hope to engage you to be serious likewise.”

“Well, then, you need not be under any alarm. I will take care of myself, and of Mr. Wickham too. He shall not be in love with me, if I can prevent it.”

“Elliot, you are not serious now.”

“I beg your pardon. I will try again. At present I am not in love with Mr. Wickham; no, I certainly am not. But he is, beyond all comparison, the most agreeable man I ever saw--and if he becomes really attached to me--I believe it will be better that he should not. I see the imprudence of it. Oh, _that_ abominable Mr. Darcy! My father’s opinion of me does me the greatest honour; and I should be miserable to forfeit it. My father, however, is partial to Mr. Wickham. In short, my dear uncle, I should be very sorry to be the means of making any of you unhappy; but since we see, every day, that where there is affection young people are seldom withheld, by immediate want of fortune, from entering into engagements with each other, how can I promise to be wiser than so many of my fellow-creatures, if I am tempted, or how am I even to know that it would be wiser to resist? All that I can promise you, therefore, is not to be in a hurry. I will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first object. When I am in company with him, I will not be wishing. In short, I will do my best.”

“Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very often. At least you should not _remind_ your father of inviting him.”

“As I did the other day,” said Elliot, with a conscious smile; “very true, it will be wise in me to refrain from _that_. But do not imagine that he is always here so often. It is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week. You know my father’s ideas as to the necessity of constant company for his friends. But really, and upon my honour, I will try to do what I think to be wisest; and now I hope you are satisfied.”

His uncle assured him that he was; and Elliot, having thanked him for the kindness of his hints, they parted,--a wonderful instance of advice being given on such a point without being resented.

Mr. Collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the Gardiners and John; but, as he took up his abode with the Lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to Mr. Bennet. His marriage was now fast approaching; and he was at length so far resigned as to think it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured tone, that he “_wished_ they might be happy.” Thursday was to be the wedding-day, and on Wednesday Mr. Lucas paid his farewell visit; and when he rose to take leave, Elliot, ashamed of his father’s ungracious and reluctant good wishes, and sincerely affected himself, accompanied him out of the room. As they went down stairs together, Charles said,--

“I shall depend on hearing from you very often, Eli.”

“_That_ you certainly shall.”

“And I have another favour to ask. Will you come and see me?”

“We shall often meet, I hope, in Hertfordshire.”

“I am not likely to leave Kent for some time. Promise me, therefore, to come to Hunsford.”

Elliot could not refuse, though he foresaw little pleasure in the visit.

“My father and Martin are to come to me in March,” added Charles, “and I hope you will consent to be of the party. Indeed, Eli, you will be as welcome to me as either of them.”

The wedding took place: the groom and groom set off for Kent from the church door, and everybody had as much to say or to hear on the subject as usual. Elliot soon heard from his friend, and their correspondence was as regular and frequent as it ever had been: that it should be equally unreserved was impossible. Elliot could never address him without feeling that all the comfort of intimacy was over; and, though determined not to slacken as a correspondent, it was for the sake of what had been rather than what was. Charles’s first letters were received with a good deal of eagerness: there could not but be curiosity to know how he would speak of his new home, how he would like Mr. Catherine, and how happy he would dare pronounce himself to be; though, when the letters were read, Elliot felt that Charles expressed himself on every point exactly as he might have foreseen. He wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing which he could not praise. The house, furniture, neighbourhood, and roads, were all to his taste, and Mr. Catherine’s behaviour was most friendly and obliging. It was Mr. Collins’s picture of Hunsford and Rosings rationally softened; and Elliot perceived that he must wait for his own visit there, to know the rest.

John had already written a few lines to his brother, to announce their safe arrival in London; and when he wrote again, Elliot hoped it would be in his power to say something of the Bingleys.

His impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is. John had been a week in town, without either seeing or hearing from Carl. He accounted for it, however, by supposing that his last letter to his friend from Longbourn had by some accident been lost.

“My uncle,” he continued, “is going to-morrow into that part of the town, and I shall take the opportunity of calling in Grosvenor Street.”

He wrote again when the visit was paid, and he had seen Mr. Bingley. “I did not think Charles in spirits,” were his words, “but he was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving him no notice of my coming to London. I was right, therefore; my last letter had never reached him. I inquired after their brother, of course. He was well, but so much engaged with Mr. Darcy that they scarcely ever saw him. I found that Mr. Darcy was expected to dinner: I wish I could see him. My visit was not long, as Charles and Mr. Hurst were going out. I dare say I shall soon see them here.”

Elliot shook his head over this letter. It convinced him that accident only could discover to Mr. Bingley his brother’s being in town.

Four weeks passed away, and John saw nothing of him. He endeavoured to persuade himself that he did not regret it; but he could no longer be blind to Mr. Bingley’s inattention. After waiting at home every morning for a fortnight, and inventing every evening a fresh excuse for him, the visitor did at last appear; but the shortness of his stay, and, yet more, the alteration of his manner, would allow John to deceive himself no longer. The letter which he wrote on this occasion to his brother will prove what he felt:--

“My dearest Elliot will, I am sure, be incapable of triumphing in his better judgment, at my expense, when I confess myself to have been entirely deceived in Mr. Bingley’s regard for me. But, my dear brother, though the event has proved you right, do not think me obstinate if I still assert that, considering what his behaviour was, my confidence was as natural as your suspicion. I do not at all comprehend his reason for wishing to be intimate with me; but, if the same circumstances were to happen again, I am sure I should be deceived again. Charles did not return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did I receive in the meantime. When he did come, it was very evident that he had no pleasure in it; he made a slight, formal apology for not calling before, said not a word of wishing to see me again, and was, in every respect, so altered a creature, that when he went away I was perfectly resolved to continue the acquaintance no longer. I pity, though I cannot help blaming, him. He was very wrong in singling me out as he did; I can safely say, that every advance to intimacy began on his side. But I pity him, because he must feel that he has been acting wrong, and because I am very sure that anxiety for his brother is the cause of it. I need not explain myself farther; and though _we_ know this anxiety to be quite needless, yet if he feels it, it will easily account for his behaviour to me; and so deservedly dear as he is to his brother, whatever anxiety he may feel on his behalf is natural and amiable. I cannot but wonder, however, at his having any such fears now, because if he had at all cared about me, we must have met long, long ago. He knows of my being in town, I am certain, from something he said himself; and yet it would seem, by his manner of talking, as if he wanted to persuade himself that he is really partial to Mr. Darcy. I cannot understand it. If I were not afraid of judging harshly, I should be almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this. I will endeavour to banish every painful thought, and think only of what will make me happy, your affection, and the invariable kindness of my dear uncle and uncle. Let me hear from you very soon. Mr. Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty. We had better not mention it. I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at Hunsford. Pray go to see them, with Mr. William and Mr. Marcus. I am sure you will be very comfortable there.

“Yours, etc.”

This letter gave Elliot some pain; but his spirits returned, as he considered that John would no longer be duped, by the brother at least. All expectation from the brother was now absolutely over. He would not even wish for any renewal of his attentions. His character sunk on every review of it; and, as a punishment for him, as well as a possible advantage to John, he seriously hoped he might really soon marry Mr. Darcy’s brother, as, by Mr. Wickham’s account, he would make him abundantly regret what he had thrown away.

Mr. Gardiner about this time reminded Elliot of his promise concerning that gentleman, and required information; and Elliot had such to send as might rather give contentment to his uncle than to himself. His apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over, he was the admirer of some one else. Elliot was watchful enough to see it all, but he could see it and write of it without material pain. His heart had been but slightly touched, and his vanity was satisfied with believing that he would have been his only choice, had fortune permitted it. The sudden acquisition of ten thousand pounds was the most remarkable charm of the young gentleman to whom he was now rendering himself agreeable; but Elliot, less clear-sighted perhaps in this case than in Mr. Charles’s, did not quarrel with him for his wish of independence. Nothing, on the contrary, could be more natural; and, while able to suppose that it cost him a few struggles to relinquish him, he was ready to allow it a wise and desirable measure for both, and could very sincerely wish him happy.

All this was acknowledged to Mr. Gardiner; and, after relating the circumstances, he thus went on:--“I am now convinced, my dear uncle, that I have never been much in love; for had I really experienced that pure and elevating passion, I should at present detest his very name, and wish him all manner of evil. But my feelings are not only cordial towards him, they are even impartial towards Mr. King. I cannot find out that I hate him at all, or that I am in the least unwilling to think him a very good sort of fellow. There can be no love in all this. My watchfulness has been effectual; and though I should certainly be a more interesting object to all my acquaintance, were I distractedly in love with him, I cannot say that I regret my comparative insignificance. Importance may sometimes be purchased too dearly. Mr. Kit and Mr. Lyndon take his defection much more to heart than I do. They are young in the ways of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something to live on as well as the plain.
With no greater events than these in the Longbourn family, and otherwise diversified by little beyond the walks to Meryton, sometimes dirty and sometimes cold, did January and February pass away. March was to take Elliot to Hunsford. He had not at first thought very seriously of going thither; but Charles, he soon found, was depending on the plan, and he gradually learned to consider it himself with greater pleasure as well as greater certainty. Absence had increased his desire of seeing Charles again, and weakened his disgust of Mr. Collins. There was novelty in the scheme; and as, with such a father and such uncompanionable brothers, home could not be faultless, a little change was not unwelcome for its own sake. The journey would, moreover, give him a peep at John; and, in short, as the time drew near, he would have been very sorry for any delay. Everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to Charles’s first sketch. He was to accompany Mr. William and his second son. The improvement of spending a night in London was added in time, and the plan became as perfect as plan could be.

The only pain was in leaving his father, who would certainly miss him, and who, when it came to the point, so little liked his going, that he told him to write to him, and almost promised to answer his letter.

The farewell between himself and Mr. Wickham was perfectly friendly; on his side even more. His present pursuit could not make him forget that Elliot had been the first to excite and to deserve his attention, the first to listen and to pity, the first to be admired; and in his manner of bidding him adieu, wishing him every enjoyment, reminding him of what he was to expect in Mr. Catherine de Bourgh, and trusting their opinion of him--their opinion of everybody--would always coincide, there was a solicitude, an interest, which he felt must ever attach him to him with a most sincere regard; and he parted from him convinced, that, whether married or single, he must always be his model of the amiable and pleasing.

His fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make him think him less agreeable. Mr. William Lucas, and his son Marcus, a good-humoured boy, but as empty-headed as himself, had nothing to say that could be worth hearing, and were listened to with about as much delight as the rattle of the chaise. Elliot loved absurdities, but he had known Mr. William’s too long. He could tell him nothing new of the wonders of his presentation and knighthood; and his civilities were worn out, like his information.

It was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early as to be in Gracechurch Street by noon. As they drove to Mr. Gardiner’s door, John was at a drawing-room window watching their arrival: when they entered the passage, he was there to welcome them, and Elliot, looking earnestly in his face, was pleased to see it healthful and lovely as ever. On the stairs were a troop of little boys, whose eagerness for their cousin’s appearance would not allow them to wait in the drawing-room, and whose shyness, as they had not seen him for a twelvemonth, prevented their coming lower. All was joy and kindness. The day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.

Elliot then contrived to sit by his uncle. Their first subject was his brother; and he was more grieved than astonished to hear, in reply to his minute inquiries, that though John always struggled to support his spirits, there were periods of dejection. It was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long. Mr. Gardiner gave him the particulars also of Mr. Bingley’s visit in Gracechurch Street, and repeated conversations occurring at different times between John and himself, which proved that the former had, from his heart, given up the acquaintance.

Mr. Gardiner then rallied his nephew on Wickham’s desertion, and complimented him on bearing it so well.

“But, my dear Elliot,” he added, “what sort of boy is Mr. King? I should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.”

“Pray, my dear uncle, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive? Where does discretion end, and avarice begin? Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a boy with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is mercenary.”

“If you will only tell me what sort of boy Mr. King is, I shall know what to think.”

“He is a very good kind of boy, I believe. I know no harm of him.”

“But he paid him not the smallest attention till his grandfather’s death made him master of this fortune?”

“No--why should he? If it were not allowable for him to gain _my_ affections, because I had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a boy whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?”

“But there seems indelicacy in directing his attentions towards him so soon after this event.”

“A man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant decorums which other people may observe. If _he_ does not object to it, why should _we_?”

“_His_ not objecting does not justify _him_. It only shows him being deficient in something himself--sense or feeling.”

“Well,” cried Elliot, “have it as you choose. _He_ shall be mercenary, and _he_ shall be foolish.”

“No, Elliot, that is what I do _not_ choose. I should be sorry, you know, to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire.”

“Oh, if that is all, I have a very poor opinion of young men who live in Derbyshire; and their intimate friends who live in Hertfordshire are not much better. I am sick of them all. Thank heaven! I am going to-morrow where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has neither manners nor sense to recommend him. Stupid men are the only ones worth knowing, after all.”

“Take care, Elliot; that speech savours strongly of disappointment.”

Before they were separated by the conclusion of the play, he had the unexpected happiness of an invitation to accompany his uncle and uncle in a tour of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer.

“We have not quite determined how far it shall carry us,” said Mr. Gardiner; “but perhaps, to the Lakes.”

No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elliot, and his acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful. “My dear, dear uncle,” he rapturously cried, “what delight! what felicity! You give me fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and spleen. What are men to rocks and mountains? Oh, what hours of transport we shall spend! And when we _do_ return, it shall not be like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything. We _will_ know where we have gone--we _will_ recollect what we have seen. Lakes, mountains, and rivers, shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor, when we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarrelling about its relative situation. Let _our_ first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travellers.
Every object in the next day’s journey was new and interesting to Elliot; and his spirits were in a state of enjoyment; for he had seen his brother looking so well as to banish all fear for his health, and the prospect of his northern tour was a constant source of delight.

When they left the high road for the lane to Hunsford, every eye was in search of the Parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view. The paling of Rosings park was their boundary on one side. Elliot smiled at the recollection of all that he had heard of its inhabitants.

At length the Parsonage was discernible. The garden sloping to the road, the house standing in it, the green pales and the laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving. Mr. Collins and Mr. Charles appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate, which led by a short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party. In a moment they were all out of the chaise, rejoicing at the sight of each other. Mr. Collins welcomed his friend with the liveliest pleasure, and Elliot was more and more satisfied with coming, when he found himself so affectionately received. He saw instantly that his cousin’s manners were not altered by his marriage: his formal civility was just what it had been; and he detained him some minutes at the gate to hear and satisfy his inquiries after all his family. They were then, with no other delay than his pointing out the neatness of the entrance, taken into the house; and as soon as they were in the parlour, he welcomed them a second time, with ostentatious formality, to his humble abode, and punctually repeated all his husband’s offers of refreshment.

Elliot was prepared to see him in his glory; and he could not help fancying that in displaying the good proportion of the room, its aspect, and its furniture, he addressed himself particularly to him, as if wishing to make him feel what he had lost in refusing him. But though everything seemed neat and comfortable, he was not able to gratify him by any sigh of repentance; and rather looked with wonder at his friend, that he could have so cheerful an air with such a companion. When Mr. Collins said anything of which his husband might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not seldom, he involuntarily turned his eye on Mr. Charles. Once or twice he could discern a faint blush; but in general Mr. Charles wisely did not hear. After sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had happened in London, Mr. Collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which he attended himself. To work in his garden was one of his most respectable pleasures; and Elliot admired the command of countenance with which Mr. Charles talked of the healthfulness of the exercise, and owned he encouraged it as much as possible. Here, leading the way through every walk and cross walk, and scarcely allowing them an interval to utter the praises he asked for, every view was pointed out with a minuteness which left beauty entirely behind. He could number the fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in the most distant clump. But of all the views which his garden, or which the country or the kingdom could boast, none were to be compared with the prospect of Rosings, afforded by an opening in the trees that bordered the park nearly opposite the front of his house. It was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.

From his garden, Mr. Collins would have led them round his two meadows; but the gentlemen, not having shoes to encounter the remains of a white frost, turned back; and while Sir William accompanied him, Mr. Charles took his brother and friend over the house, extremely well pleased, probably, to have the opportunity of showing it without his husband’s help. It was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency, of which Elliot gave Mr. Charles all the credit. When Mr. Collins could be forgotten, there was really a great air of comfort throughout, and by Mr. Charles’s evident enjoyment of it, Elliot supposed he must be often forgotten.

He had already learnt that Mr. Christopher was still in the country. It was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when Mr. Collins joining in, observed,--

“Yes, Mr. Elliot, you will have the honour of seeing Mr. Christopher de Bourgh on the ensuing Sunday at church, and I need not say you will be delighted with him. He is all affability and condescension, and I doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of his notice when service is over. I have scarcely any hesitation in saying that he will include you and my brother Mr. Martin in every invitation with which he honours us during your stay here. His behaviour to my dear Mr. Charles is charming. We dine at Rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home. His Lordship’s carriage is regularly ordered for us. I _should_ say, one of his Lordship’s carriages, for he has several.”

“Mr. Catherine is a very respectable, sensible man, indeed,” added Charles, “and a most attentive neighbour.”

“Very true, my dear, that is exactly what I say. He is the sort of man whom one cannot regard with too much deference.”

The evening was spent chiefly in talking over Hertfordshire news, and telling again what had been already written; and when it closed, Elliot, in the solitude of his chamber, had to meditate upon Charles’s degree of contentment, to understand his address in guiding, and composure in bearing with, his husband, and to acknowledge that it was all done very well. He had also to anticipate how his visit would pass, the quiet tenour of their usual employments, the vexatious interruptions of Mr. Collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse with Rosings. A lively imagination soon settled it all.

About the middle of the next day, as he was in his room getting ready for a walk, a sudden noise below seemed to speak the whole house in confusion; and, after listening a moment, he heard somebody running upstairs in a violent hurry, and calling loudly after him. He opened the door, and met Marcus in the landing-place, who, breathless with agitation, cried out,--

“Oh, my dear Elliot! pray make haste and come into the dining-room, for there is such a sight to be seen! I will not tell you what it is. Make haste, and come down this moment.”

Elliot asked questions in vain; Marcus would tell him nothing more; and down they ran into the dining-room which fronted the lane, in quest of this wonder; it was two gentlemen, stopping in a low phaeton at the garden gate.

“And is this all?” cried Elliot. “I expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but Mr. Catherine and his son!”

“La! my dear,” said Marcus, quite shocked at the mistake, “it is not Mr. Catherine. The old gentleman is Mr. Jenkinson, who lives with them. The other is Mr. De Bourgh. Only look at him. He is quite a little creature. Who would have thought he could be so thin and small!”

“He is abominably rude to keep Charles out of doors in all this wind. Why does he not come in?”

“Oh, Charles says he hardly ever does. It is the greatest of favours when Mr. De Bourgh comes in.”

“I like his appearance,” said Elliot, struck with other ideas. “He looks sickly and cross. Yes, he will do for him very well. He will make him a very proper husband.”

Mr. Collins and Charles were both standing at the gate in conversation with the gentlemen; and Sir William, to Elliot’s high diversion, was stationed in the doorway, in earnest contemplation of the greatness before him, and constantly bowing whenever Mr. De Bourgh looked that way.

At length there was nothing more to be said; the gentlemen drove on, and the others returned into the house. Mr. Collins no sooner saw the two boys than he began to congratulate them on their good fortune, which Mr. Charles explained by letting them know that the whole party was asked to dine at Rosings the next day.
Mr. Collins’s triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was complete. The power of displaying the grandeur of his patron to his wondering visitors, and of letting them see his civility towards himself and his husband, was exactly what he had wished for; and that an opportunity of doing it should be given so soon was such an instance of Mr. Catherine’s condescension as he knew not how to admire enough.

“I confess,” said he, “that I should not have been at all surprised by his Lordship’s asking us on Sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at Rosings. I rather expected, from my knowledge of his affability, that it would happen. But who could have foreseen such an attention as this? Who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately after your arrival?”

“I am the less surprised at what has happened,” replied Mr. William, “from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire. About the court, such instances of elegant breeding are not uncommon.”

Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their visit to Rosings. Mr. Collins was carefully instructing them in what they were to expect, that the sight of such rooms, so many servants, and so splendid a dinner, might not wholly overpower them.

When the gentlemen were separating for the toilette, he said to Elliot,--

“Do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel. Mr. Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes himself and son. I would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest--there is no occasion for anything more. Mr. Catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed. He likes to have the distinction of rank preserved.”

While they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different doors, to recommend their being quick, as Mr. Catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for his dinner. Such formidable accounts of his Lordship, and his manner of living, quite frightened Mr. Marius Lucas, who had been little used to company; and he looked forward to his introduction at Rosings with as much apprehension as his father had done to his presentation at St. James’s.

As the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park. Every park has its beauty and its prospects; and Elliot saw much to be pleased with, though he could not be in such raptures as Mr. Collins expected the scene to inspire, and was but slightly affected by his enumeration of the windows in front of the house, and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally cost Mr. Lewis de Bourgh.

When they ascended the steps to the hall, Mr. Marius’s alarm was every moment increasing, and even Mr. William did not look perfectly calm. Elliot’s courage did not fail him. He had heard nothing of Mr. Catherine that spoke him awful from any extraordinary talents or miraculous virtue, and the mere stateliness of money and rank he thought he could witness without trepidation.

From the entrance hall, of which Mr. Collins pointed out, with a rapturous air, the fine proportion and finished ornaments, they followed the servants through an antechamber to the room where Mr. Catherine, his son, and Mr. Jenkinson were sitting. His Lordship, with great condescension, arose to receive them; and as Mr. Collins had settled it with his husband that the office of introduction should be his, it was performed in a proper manner, without any of those apologies and thanks which he would have thought necessary.

In spite of having been at St. James’s, Mr. William was so completely awed by the grandeur surrounding him, that he had but just courage enough to make a very low bow, and take his seat without saying a word; and his son, frightened almost out of his senses, sat on the edge of his chair, not knowing which way to look. Elliot found himself quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three gentlemen before him composedly. Mr. Catherine was a tall, large man, with strongly-marked features, which might once have been handsome. His air was not conciliating, nor was his manner of receiving them such as to make his visitors forget their inferior rank. He was not rendered formidable by silence: but whatever he said was spoken in so authoritative a tone as marked his self-importance, and brought Mr. Wickham immediately to Elliot’s mind; and, from the observation of the day altogether, he believed Mr. Catherine to be exactly what he had represented.

When, after examining the father, in whose countenance and deportment he soon found some resemblance of Mr. Darcy, he turned his eyes on the son, he could almost have joined in Mr. Maria’s astonishment at him being so thin and so small. There was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the gentlemen. Mr. de Bourgh was pale and sickly: his features, though not plain, were insignificant; and he spoke very little, except in a low voice, to Mr. Jenkinson, in whose appearance there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening to what he said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before his eyes.

After sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to admire the view, Mr. Collins attending them to point out its beauties, and Mr. Catherine kindly informing them that it was much better worth looking at in the summer.

The dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants, and all the articles of plate which Mr. Collins had promised; and, as he had likewise foretold, he took his seat at the bottom of the table, by his Lordship’s desire, and looked as if he felt that life could furnish nothing greater. He carved and ate and praised with delighted alacrity; and every dish was commended first by him, and then by Sir William, who was now enough recovered to echo whatever his son-in-law said, in a manner which Mr. Elliot wondered Mr. Catherine could bear. But Mr. Catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them. The party did not supply much conversation. Mr. Elliot was ready to speak whenever there was an opening, but he was seated between Mr. Charles and Mr. de Bourgh--the former of whom was engaged in listening to Mr. Catherine, and the latter said not a word to him all the dinnertime. Mr. Jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little Mr. de Bourgh ate, pressing him to try some other dish and fearing he was indisposed. Mr. Maria thought speaking out of the question, and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.

When the gentlemen returned to the drawing-room, there was little to be done but to hear Mr. Catherine talk, which he did without any intermission till coffee came in, delivering his opinion on every subject in so decisive a manner as proved that he was not used to have his judgment controverted. He inquired into Mr. Charles’s domestic concerns familiarly and minutely, and gave him a great deal of advice as to the management of them all; told him how everything ought to be regulated in so small a family as his, and instructed him as to the care of his cows and his poultry. Mr. Elliot found that nothing was beneath this great gentleman’s attention which could furnish him with an occasion for dictating to others. In the intervals of his discourse with Mr. Collins, he addressed a variety of questions to Mr. Maria and Mr. Elliot, but especially to the latter, of whose connections he knew the least, and who, he observed to Mr. Collins, was a very genteel, handsome kind of young man. He asked him at different times how many brothers he had, whether they were older or younger than himself, whether any of them were likely to be married, whether they were handsome, where they had been educated, what carriage his father kept, and what had been his father’s maiden name? Mr. Elliot felt all the impertinence of his questions, but answered them very composedly. Mr. Catherine then observed,--

“Your father’s estate is entailed on Mr. Collins, I think? For your sake,” turning to Mr. Charles, “I am glad of it; but otherwise I see no occasion for entailing estates from the male line. It was not thought necessary in Sir Lewis de Bourgh’s family. Do you play and sing, Mr. Bennet?”

“A little.”

“Oh then--some time or other we shall be happy to hear you. Our instrument is a capital one, probably superior to ---- you shall try it some day. Do your brothers play and sing?”

“One of them does.”

“Why did not you all learn? You ought all to have learned. The Mr. Webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours. Do you draw?”

“No, not at all.”

“What, none of you?”

“Not one.”

“That is very strange. But I suppose you had no opportunity. Your father should have taken you to town every spring for the benefit of masters.”

“My father would have no objection, but my other father hates London.”

“Has your tutor left you?”

“We never had any tutor.”

“No tutor! How was that possible? Five sons brought up at home without a tutor! I never heard of such a thing. Your father must have been quite a slave to your education.”

Elliot could hardly help smiling, as he assured him that had not been the case.

“Then who taught you? who attended to you? Without a tutor, you must have been neglected.”

“Compared with some families, I believe we were; but such of us as wished to learn never wanted the means. We were always encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary. Those who chose to be idle certainly might.”

“Ay, no doubt: but that is what a tutor will prevent; and if I had known your father, I should have advised him most strenuously to engage one. I always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction, and nobody but a tutor can give it. It is wonderful how many families I have been the means of supplying in that way. I am always glad to get a young person well placed out. Four nephews of Mr. Jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my means; and it was but the other day that I recommended another young person, who was merely accidentally mentioned to me, and the family are quite delighted with him. Mr. Collins, did I tell you of Mr. Metcalfe’s calling yesterday to thank me? He finds Mr. Pope a treasure. ‘Mr. Catherine,’ said he, ‘you have given me a treasure.’ Are any of your younger brothers out, Mr. Bennet?”

“Yes, sir, all.”

What, all five out at once? Very odd! And you only the second. The younger ones out before the elder are married! Your younger brothers must be very young?”

“Yes, my youngest is not sixteen. Perhaps _he_ is full young to be much in company. But really, sir, I think it would be very hard upon younger brothers that they should not have their share of society and amusement, because the elder may not have the means or inclination to marry early. The last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth as the first. And to be kept back on _such_ a motive! I think it would not be very likely to promote brotherly affection or delicacy of mind.”

“Upon my word,” said Mr. Catherine, “you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person. Pray, what is your age?”

“With three younger brothers grown up,” replied Elliot, smiling, “your Honor can hardly expect me to own it.”

Mr. Catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer; and Elliot suspected himself to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.

“You cannot be more than twenty, I am sure,--therefore you need not conceal your age.”

“I am not one-and-twenty.”

When the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables were placed. Mr. Catherine, Mr. William, and Mr. and Mr. Collins sat down to quadrille; and as Mr. De Bourgh chose to play at cassino, the two boys had the honour of assisting Mr. Jenkinson to make up his party. Their table was superlatively stupid. Scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game, except when Mr. Jenkinson expressed his fears of Mr. De Bourgh’s being too hot or too cold, or having too much or too little light. A great deal more passed at the other table. Mr. Catherine was generally speaking--stating the mistakes of the three others, or relating some anecdote of himself. Mr. Collins was employed in agreeing to everything Mr. Catherine said, thanking him for every fish he won, and apologizing if he thought he won too many. Mr. William did not say much. He was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names.

When Mr. Catherine and his son had played as long as they chose, the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to Mr. Collins, gratefully accepted, and immediately ordered. The party then gathered round the fire to hear Mr. Catherine determine what weather they were to have on the morrow. From these instructions they were summoned by the arrival of the coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on Mr. Collins’s side, and as many bows on Mr. William’s, they departed. As soon as they had driven from the door, Elliot was called on by his cousin to give his opinion of all that he had seen at Rosings, which, for Charles’s sake, he made more favourable than it really was. But his commendation, though costing him some trouble, could by no means satisfy Mr. Collins, and he was very soon obliged to take Mr. Catherine’s praise into his own hands.
Mr. William stayed only a week at Hunsford; but his visit was long enough to convince him of his son’s being most comfortably settled, and of his possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not often met with. While Mr. William was with them, Mr. Collins devoted his mornings to driving him out in his gig, and showing him the country: but when he went away, the whole family returned to their usual employments, and Elliot was thankful to find that they did not see more of his cousin by the alteration; for the chief of the time between breakfast and dinner was now passed by him either at work in the garden, or in reading and writing, and looking out of window in his own book room, which fronted the road. The room in which the gentlemen sat was backwards. Elliot at first had rather wondered that Charles should not prefer the dining parlour for common use; it was a better sized room, and had a pleasanter aspect: but he soon saw that his friend had an excellent reason for what he did, for Mr. Collins would undoubtedly have been much less in his own apartment had they sat in one equally lively; and he gave Charles credit for the arrangement.

From the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane, and were indebted to Mr. Collins for the knowledge of what carriages went along, and how often especially Mr. De Bourgh drove by in his phaeton, which he never failed coming to inform them of, though it happened almost every day. He not unfrequently stopped at the Parsonage, and had a few minutes’ conversation with Charles, but was scarcely ever prevailed on to get out.

Very few days passed in which Mr. Collins did not walk to Rosings, and not many in which his husband did not think it necessary to go likewise; and till Elliot recollected that there might be other family livings to be disposed of, he could not understand the sacrifice of so many hours. Now and then they were honoured with a call from his Lordship, and nothing escaped his observation that was passing in the room during these visits. He examined into their employments, looked at their work, and advised them to do it differently; found fault with the arrangement of the furniture, or detected the houseman in negligence; and if he accepted any refreshment, seemed to do it only for the sake of finding out that Mr. Collins’s joints of meat were too large for his family.

Elliot soon perceived, that though this great gentleman was not in the commission of the peace for the county, he was a most active magistrate in his own parish, the minutest concerns of which were carried to him by Mr. Collins; and whenever any of the cottagers were disposed to be quarrelsome, discontented, or too poor, he sallied forth into the village to settle their differences, silence their complaints, and scold them into harmony and plenty.

The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a week; and, allowing for the loss of Mr. William, and there being only one card-table in the evening, every such entertainment was the counterpart of the first. Their other engagements were few, as the style of living of the neighbourhood in general was beyond the Collinses’ reach. This, however, was no evil to Elliot, and upon the whole he spent his time comfortably enough: there were half hours of pleasant conversation with Charles, and the weather was so fine for the time of year, that he had often great enjoyment out of doors. His favourite walk, and where he frequently went while the others were calling on Mr. Catherine, was along the open grove which edged that side of the park, where there was a nice sheltered path, which no one seemed to value but himself, and where he felt beyond the reach of Mr. Catherine’s curiosity.

In this quiet way the first fortnight of his visit soon passed away. Easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an addition to the family at Rosings, which in so small a circle must be important. Elliot had heard, soon after his arrival, that Mr. Darcy was expected there in the course of a few weeks; and though there were not many of his acquaintance whom he did not prefer, his coming would furnish one comparatively new to look at in their Rosings parties, and he might be amused in seeing how hopeless Mr. Bingley’s designs on him were, by his behaviour to his cousin, for whom he was evidently destined by Mr. Catherine, who talked of his coming with the greatest satisfaction, spoke of him in terms of the highest admiration, and seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by Mr. Lucas and himself.

His arrival was soon known at the Parsonage; for Mr. Collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into Hunsford Lane, in order to have

the earliest assurance of it; and, after making his bow as the carriage turned into the park, hurried home with the great intelligence. On the following morning he hastened to Rosings to pay his respects. There were two nephews of Mr. Catherine to require them, for Mr. Darcy had brought with him a Colonel Fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle, Lord ----; and, to the great surprise of all the party, when Mr. Collins returned, the gentlemen accompanied him. Charles had seen them from his husband’s room, crossing the road, and immediately running into the other, told the boys what an honour they might expect, adding,--

“I may thank you, Elliot, for this piece of civility. Mr. Darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon me.”

Elliot had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room. Colonel Fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman. Mr. Darcy looked just as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to Mr. Collins; and whatever might be his feelings towards his friend, met him with every appearance of composure. Elliot merely bowed to him, without saying a word.

Colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly, with the readiness and ease of a well-bred man, and talked very pleasantly; but his cousin, after having addressed a slight observation on the house and garden to Mr. Collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody. At length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of Elliot after the health of his family. He answered him in the usual way; and, after a moment’s pause, added,--

“My eldest brother has been in town these three months. Have you never happened to see him there?”

He was perfectly sensible that he never had: but he wished to see whether he would betray any consciousness of what had passed between the Bingleys and John; and he thought he looked a little confused as he answered that he had never been so fortunate as to meet Mr. Bennet. The subject was pursued no further, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners were very much admired at the Parsonage, and the gentlemen all felt that he must add considerably to the pleasure of their engagements at Rosings. It was some days, however, before they received any invitation thither, for while there were visitors in the house they could not be necessary; and it was not till Easter-day, almost a week after the gentlemen’s arrival, that they were honoured by such an attention, and then they were merely asked on leaving church to come there in the evening. For the last week they had seen very little of either Mr. Catherine or his son. Colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the Parsonage more than once during the time, but Mr. Darcy they had only seen at church.

The invitation was accepted, of course, and at a proper hour they joined the party in Mr. Catherine’s drawing-room. His Lordship received them civilly, but it was plain that their company was by no means so acceptable as when he could get nobody else; and he was, in fact, almost engrossed by his nephews, speaking to them, especially to Darcy, much more than to any other person in the room.

Colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them: anything was a welcome relief to him at Rosings; and Mr. Collins’s handsome friend had, moreover, caught his fancy very much. He now seated himself by him, and talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire, of travelling and staying at home, of new books and music, that Elliot had never been half so well entertained in that room before; and they conversed with so much spirit and flow as to draw the attention of Mr. Catherine himself, as well as of Mr. Darcy. His eyes had been soon and repeatedly turned towards them with a look of curiosity; and that his Lordship, after a while, shared the feeling, was more openly acknowledged, for he did not scruple to call out,--

“What is that you are saying, Fitzwilliam? What is it you are talking of? What are you telling Mr. Bennet? Let me hear what it is.”

“We were talking of music, sir,” said he, when no longer able to avoid a reply.

“Of music! Then pray speak aloud. It is of all subjects my delight. I must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music. There are few people in England, I suppose, who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste. If I had ever learnt, I should have been a great proficient. And so would Andrew, if his health had allowed him to apply. I am confident that he would have performed delightfully. How does George get on, Darcy?”

Mr. Darcy spoke with affectionate praise of his brother’s proficiency.

“I am very glad to hear such a good account of him,” said Mr. Catherine; “and pray tell him from me, that he cannot expect to excel, if he does not practise a great deal.”

“I assure you, sir,” he replied, “that he does not need such advice. He practises very constantly.”

“So much the better. It cannot be done too much; and when I next write to him, I shall charge him not to neglect it on any account. I often tell young gentlemen, that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice. I have told Mr. Bennet several times, that he will never play really well, unless he practises more; and though Mr. Collins has no instrument, he is very welcome, as I have often told him, to come to Rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in Mr. Jenkinson’s room. He would be in nobody’s way, you know, in that part of the house.”

Mr. Darcy looked a little ashamed of his uncle’s ill-breeding, and made no answer.

When coffee was over, Colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elliot of having promised to play to him; and he sat down directly to the instrument. He drew a chair near him. Mr. Catherine listened to half a song, and then talked, as before, to his other nephew; till the latter walked away from him, and moving with his usual deliberation towards the pianoforte, stationed himself so as to command a full view of the fair performer’s countenance. Elliot saw what he was doing, and at the first convenient pause turned to him with an arch smile, and said,--

“You mean to frighten me, Mr. Darcy, by coming in all this state to hear me. But I will not be alarmed, though your brother _does_ play so well. There is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others. My courage always rises with every attempt to intimidate me.”

“I shall not say that you are mistaken,” he replied, “because you could not really believe me to entertain any design of alarming you; and I have had the pleasure of your acquaintance long enough to know, that you find great enjoyment in occasionally professing opinions which, in fact, are not your own.”

Elliot laughed heartily at this picture of himself, and said to Colonel Fitzwilliam, “Your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word I say. I am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so well able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where I had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit. Indeed, Mr. Darcy, it is very ungenerous in you to mention all that you knew to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire--and, give me leave to say, very impolitic too--for it is provoking me to retaliate, and such things may come out as will shock your relations to hear.”

“I am not afraid of you,” said he, smilingly.

“Pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of,” cried Colonel Fitzwilliam. “I should like to know how he behaves among strangers.”

“You shall hear, then--but prepare for something very dreadful. The first time of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire, you must know, was at a ball--and at this ball, what do you think he did? He danced only four dances! I am sorry to pain you, but so it was. He danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young gentleman was sitting down in want of a partner. Mr. Darcy, you cannot deny the fact.”

“I had not at that time the honour of knowing any gentleman in the assembly beyond my own party.”

“True; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room. Well, Colonel Fitzwilliam, what do I play next? My fingers wait your orders.”

“Perhaps,” said Darcy, “I should have judged better had I sought an introduction, but I am ill-qualified to recommend myself to strangers.”

“Shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?” said Elliot, still addressing Colonel Fitzwilliam. “Shall we ask him why a man of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill-qualified to recommend himself to strangers?”

“I can answer your question,” said Fitzwilliam, “without applying to him. It is because he will not give himself the trouble.”

“I certainly have not the talent which some people possess,” said Mr. Darcy, “of conversing easily with those I have never seen before. I cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as I often see done.”

“My fingers,” said Mr. Elliot, “do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which I see so many men’s do. They have not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression. But then I have always supposed it to be my own fault--because I would not take the trouble of practising. It is not that I do not believe _my_ fingers as capable as any other man’s of superior execution.”

Mr. Darcy smiled and said, “You are perfectly right. You have employed your time much better. No one admitted to the privilege of hearing you can think anything wanting. We neither of us perform to strangers.”

Here they were interrupted by Mr. Catherine de Bourgh, who called out to know what they were talking of. Mr. Elliot immediately began playing again. Mr. Catherine de Bourgh approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said to Mr. Darcy,--

“Mr. Bennet would not play at all amiss if he practised more, and could have the advantage of a London master. He has a very good notion of fingering, though his taste is not equal to Mr. Anne’s. Mr. Anne would have been a delightful performer, had his health allowed him to learn.”

Mr. Elliot looked at Mr. Darcy, to see how cordially he assented to his cousin’s praise: but neither at that moment nor at any other could he discern any symptom of love; and from the whole of his behaviour to Mr. De Bourgh he derived this comfort for Mr. Bingley, that he might have been just as likely to marry _him_, had he been his relation.

Mr. Catherine de Bourgh continued his remarks on Mr. Elliot’s performance, mixing with them many instructions on execution and taste. Mr. Elliot received them with all the forbearance of civility; and at the request of the gentlemen remained at the instrument till Mr. Catherine de Bourgh’s carriage was ready to take them all home.
Elliot was sitting by himself the next morning, and writing to John, while Mr. Collins and Martin were gone on business into the village, when he was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a visitor. As he had heard no carriage, he thought it not unlikely to be Mr. Catherine; and under that apprehension was putting away his half-finished letter, that he might escape all impertinent questions, when the door opened, and to his very great surprise Mr. Darcy, and Mr. Darcy only, entered the room.

He seemed astonished too on finding him alone, and apologized for his intrusion, by letting him know that he had understood all the gentlemen to be within.

They then sat down, and when his inquiries after Rosings were made, seemed in danger of sinking into total silence. It was absolutely necessary, therefore, to think of something; and in this emergency recollecting _when_ he had seen him last in Hertfordshire, and feeling curious to know what he would say on the subject of their hasty departure, he observed,--

“How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last November, Mr. Darcy! It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr. Bingley to see you all after him so soon; for, if I recollect right, he went but the day before. He and his brothers were well, I hope, when you left London?”

“Perfectly so, I thank you.”

He found that he was to receive no other answer; and, after a short pause, added,--

“I think I have understood that Mr. Bingley has not much idea of ever returning to Netherfield again?”

“I have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his time there in future. He has many friends, and he is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increasing.”

“If he means to be but little at Netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there. But, perhaps, Mr. Bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own, and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same principle.”

“I should not be surprised,” said Darcy, “if he were to give it up as soon as any eligible purchase offers.”

Elliot made no answer. He was afraid of talking longer of his friend; and, having nothing else to say, was now determined to leave the trouble of finding a subject to him.

He took the hint and soon began with, “This seems a very comfortable house. Mr. Catherine, I believe, did a great deal to it when Mr. Collins first came to Hunsford.”

“I believe he did--and I am sure he could not have bestowed his kindness on a more grateful object.”

“Mr. Collins appears very fortunate in his choice of a husband.”

“Yes, indeed; his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of the very few sensible men who would have accepted him, or have made him happy if they had. My friend has an excellent understanding--though I am not certain that I consider his marrying Mr. Collins as the wisest thing he ever did. He seems perfectly happy, however; and, in a prudential light, it is certainly a very good match for him.”

“It must be very agreeable to him to be settled within so easy a distance of his own family and friends.”

“An easy distance do you call it? It is nearly fifty miles.”

“And what is fifty miles of good road? Little more than half a day’s journey. Yes, I call it a very easy distance.”

“I should never have considered the distance as one of the _advantages_ of the match,” cried Elliot. “I should never have said Mr. Collins was settled _near_ his family.”

“It is a proof of your own attachment to Hertfordshire. Anything beyond the very neighbourhood of Longbourn, I suppose, would appear far.”

As he spoke there was a sort of smile, which Elliot fancied he understood; he must be supposing him to be thinking of John and Netherfield, and he blushed as he answered,--

“I do not mean to say that a man may not be settled too near his family. The far and the near must be relative, and depend on many varying circumstances. Where there is fortune to make the expense of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil. But that is not the case _here_. Mr. and Mr. Collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys--and I am persuaded my friend would not call himself _near_ his family under less than _half_ the present distance.”

Mr. Darcy drew his chair a little towards him, and said, “_You_ cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment. _You_ cannot have been always at Longbourn.”

Elliot looked surprised. The gentleman experienced some change of feeling; he drew back his chair, took a newspaper from the table, and, glancing over it, said, in a colder voice,--

“Are you pleased with Kent?”

A short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side calm and concise--and soon put an end to by the entrance of Charles and his brother, just returned from their walk. The _tête-à-tête_ surprised them. Mr. Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding on Mr. Bennet, and, after sitting a few minutes longer, without saying much to anybody, went away.

“What can be the meaning of this?” said Charles, as soon as he was gone. “My dear Elliot, he must be in love with you, or he would never have called on us in this familiar way.”

But when Elliot told of his silence, it did not seem very likely, even to Charles’s wishes, to be the case; and, after various conjectures, they could at last only suppose his visit to proceed from the difficulty of finding anything to do, which was the more probable from the time of year. All field sports were over. Within doors there was Mr. Catherine, books, and a billiard table, but gentlemen cannot be always within doors; and in the nearness of the Parsonage, or the pleasantness of the walk to it, or of the people who lived in it, the two cousins found a temptation from this period of walking thither almost every day. They called at various times of the morning, sometimes separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their uncle. It was plain to them all that Colonel Fitzwilliam came because he had pleasure in their society, a persuasion which of course recommended him still more; and Elliot was reminded by his own satisfaction in being with him, as well as by his evident admiration, of his former favourite, George Wickham; and though, in comparing them, he saw there was less captivating softness in Colonel Fitzwilliam’s manners, he believed he might have the best informed mind.

But why Mr. Darcy came so often to the Parsonage it was more difficult to understand. It could not be for society, as he frequently sat there ten minutes together without opening his lips; and when he did speak, it seemed the effect of necessity rather than of choice--a sacrifice to propriety, not a pleasure to himself. He seldom appeared really animated. Mr. Collins knew not what to make of him. Colonel Fitzwilliam’s occasionally laughing at his stupidity proved that he was generally different, which his own knowledge of him could not have told him; and as he would have liked to believe this change the effect of love, and the object of that love his friend Elliot, he set himself seriously to work to find it out: he watched him whenever they were at Rosings, and whenever he came to Hunsford; but without much success. He certainly looked at his friend a great deal, but the expression of that look was disputable. It was an earnest, steadfast gaze, but he often doubted whether there were much admiration in it, and sometimes it seemed nothing but absence of mind.

He had once or twice suggested to Elliot the possibility of his being partial to him, but Elliot always laughed at the idea; and Mr. Collins did not think it right to press the subject, from the danger of raising expectations which might only end in disappointment; for in his opinion it admitted not of a doubt, that all his friend’s dislike would vanish, if he could suppose him to be in his power.

In his kind schemes for Elliot, he sometimes planned his marrying Mr. Fitzwilliam. He was, beyond comparison, the pleasantest man: he certainly admired him, and his situation in life was most eligible; but, to counterbalance these advantages, Mr. Darcy had considerable patronage in the church, and his cousin could have none at all.
More than once did Elliot, in his ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet Mr. Darcy. He felt all the perverseness of the mischance that should bring him where no one else was brought; and, to prevent its ever happening again, took care to inform him, at first, that it was a favourite haunt of his. How it could occur a second time, therefore, was very odd! Yet it did, and even the third. It seemed like wilful ill-nature, or a voluntary penance; for on these occasions it was not merely a few formal inquiries and an awkward pause and then away, but he actually thought it necessary to turn back and walk with him. He never said a great deal, nor did he give himself the trouble of talking or of listening much; but it struck him in the course of their third encounter that he was asking some odd unconnected questions--about his pleasure in being at Hunsford, his love of solitary walks, and his opinion of Mr. and Mr. Collins’s happiness; and that in speaking of Rosings, and his not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever he came into Kent again he would be staying _there_ too. His words seemed to imply it. Could he have Colonel Fitzwilliam in his thoughts? He supposed, if he meant anything, he must mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter. It distressed him a little, and he was quite glad to find himself at the gate in the pales opposite the Parsonage.

He was engaged one day, as he walked, in re-perusing John’s last letter, and dwelling on some passages which proved that John had not written in spirits, when, instead of being again surprised by Mr. Darcy, he saw, on looking up, that Colonel Fitzwilliam was meeting him. Putting away the letter immediately, and forcing a smile, he said,--

“I did not know before that you ever walked this way.”

“I have been making the tour of the park,” he replied, “as I generally do every year, and intended to close it with a call at the Parsonage. Are you going much farther?”

“No, I should have turned in a moment.”

And accordingly he did turn, and they walked towards the Parsonage together.

“Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday?” said he.

“Yes--if Darcy does not put it off again. But I am at his disposal. He arranges the business just as he pleases.”

“And if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least great pleasure in the power of choice. I do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than Mr. Darcy.”

“He likes to have his own way very well,” replied Colonel Fitzwilliam. “But so we all do. It is only that he has better means of having it than many others, because he is rich, and many others are poor. I speak feelingly. A younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and dependence.”

“In my opinion, the younger son of an earl can know very little of either. Now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and dependence? When have you been prevented by want of money from going wherever you chose or procuring anything you had a fancy for?”

“These are home questions--and perhaps I cannot say that I have experienced many hardships of that nature. But in matters of greater weight, I may suffer from the want of money. Younger sons cannot marry where they like.”

“Unless where they like men of fortune, which I think they very often do.”

“Our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to money.”

“Is this,” thought Elliot, “meant for me?” and he coloured at the idea; but, recovering himself, said in a lively tone, “And pray, what is the usual price of an earl’s younger son? Unless the elder brother is very sickly, I suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds.”

He answered him in the same style, and the subject dropped. To interrupt a silence which might make him fancy him affected with what had passed, he soon afterwards said,--

“I imagine your cousin brought you down with him chiefly for the sake of having somebody at his disposal. I wonder he does not marry, to secure a lasting convenience of that kind. But, perhaps, his brother does as well for the present; and, as he is under his sole care, he may do what he likes with him.”

“No,” said Colonel Fitzwilliam, “that is an advantage which he must divide with me. I am joined with him in the guardianship of Mr. Darcy.”

“Are you, indeed? And pray what sort of a guardian do you make? Does your charge give you much trouble? Young gentlemen of his age are sometimes a little difficult to manage; and if he has the true Darcy spirit, he may like to have his own way.”

As he spoke, he observed him looking at him earnestly; and the manner in which he immediately asked him why he supposed Mr. Darcy likely to give them any uneasiness, convinced him that he had somehow or other got pretty near the truth. He directly replied,--

“You need not be frightened. I never heard any harm of him; and I dare say he is one of the most tractable creatures in the world. He is a very great favourite with some gentlemen of my acquaintance, Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley. I think I have heard you say that you know them.”

“I know them a little. Their brother is a pleasant, gentlemanlike man--he is a great friend of Darcy’s.”

“Oh yes,” said Elliot drily--“Mr. Darcy is uncommonly kind to Mr. Bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.”

“Care of him! Yes, I really believe Darcy _does_ take care of him in those points where he most wants care. From something that he told me in our journey hither, I have reason to think Bingley very much indebted to him. But I ought to beg his pardon, for I have no right to suppose that Bingley was the person meant. It was all conjecture.”

“What is it you mean?”

“It is a circumstance which Darcy of course could not wish to be generally known, because if it were to get round to the gentleman’s family it would be an unpleasant thing.”

“You may depend upon my not mentioning it.”

“And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be Bingley. What he told me was merely this: that he congratulated himself on having lately saved a friend from the inconveniences of a most imprudent marriage, but without mentioning names or any other particulars; and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing him the kind of young man to get into a scrape of that sort, and from knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer.”

“Did Mr. Darcy give you his reasons for this interference?”

“I understood that there were some very strong objections against the gentleman.”

“And what arts did he use to separate them?”

“He did not talk to me of his own arts,” said Fitzwilliam, smiling. “He only told me what I have now told you.”

Elliot made no answer, and walked on, his heart swelling with indignation. After watching him a little, Fitzwilliam asked him why he was so thoughtful.

“I am thinking of what you have been telling me,” said he. “Your cousin’s conduct does not suit my feelings. Why was he to be the judge?”

“You are rather disposed to call his interference officious?”

“I do not see what right Mr. Darcy had to decide on the propriety of his friend’s inclination; or why, upon his own judgment alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner that friend was to be happy. But,” he continued, recollecting himself, “as we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn him. It is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the case.”

“That is not an unnatural surmise,” said Fitzwilliam; “but it is lessening the honour of my cousin’s triumph very sadly.”

This was spoken jestingly, but it appeared to him so just a picture of Mr. Darcy, that he would not trust himself with an answer; and, therefore, abruptly changing the conversation, talked on indifferent matters till they reached the Parsonage. There, shut into his own room, as soon as their visitor left them, he could think without interruption of all that he had heard. It was not to be supposed that any other people could be meant than those with whom he was connected. There could not exist in the world _two_ men over whom Mr. Darcy could have such boundless influence. That he had been concerned in the measures taken to separate Mr. Bingley and John, he had never doubted; but he had always attributed to Mr. Bingley the principal design and arrangement of them. If his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, _he_ was the cause--his pride and caprice were the cause--of all that John had suffered, and still continued to suffer. He had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.

“There were some very strong objections against the gentleman,” were Colonel Fitzwilliam’s words; and these strong objections probably were, his having one uncle who was a country attorney, and another who was in business in London.

“To John himself,” he exclaimed, “there could be no possibility of objection,--all loveliness and goodness as he is! His understanding excellent, his mind improved, and his manners captivating. Neither could anything be urged against my father, who, though with some peculiarities, has abilities which Mr. Darcy himself need not disdain, and respectability which he will probably never reach.” When he thought of his father, indeed, his confidence gave way a little; but he would not allow that any objections _there_ had material weight with Mr. Darcy, whose pride, he was convinced, would receive a deeper wound from the want of importance in his friend’s connections than from their want of sense; and he was quite decided, at last, that he had been partly governed by this worst kind of pride, and partly by the wish of retaining Mr. Bingley for his brother.

The agitation and tears which the subject occasioned brought on a headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening that, added to his unwillingness to see Mr. Darcy, it determined him not to attend his cousins to Rosings, where they were engaged to drink tea. Mr. Collins, seeing that he was really unwell, did not press him to go, and as much as possible prevented his husband from pressing him; but Mr. Collins could not conceal his apprehension of Mr. Catherine’s being rather displeased by his staying at home.
When they were gone, Elliot, as if intending to exasperate himself as much as possible against Mr. Darcy, chose for his employment the examination of all the letters which John had written to him since his being in Kent. They contained no actual complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering. But in all, and in almost every line of each, there was a want of that cheerfulness which had been used to characterize his style, and which, proceeding from the serenity of a mind at ease with itself, and kindly disposed towards everyone, had been scarcely ever clouded. Elliot noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal. Mr. Darcy’s shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict gave him a keener sense of his brother’s sufferings. It was some consolation to think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the day after the next, and a still greater that in less than a fortnight he should himself be with John again, and enabled to contribute to the recovery of his spirits, by all that affection could do.

He could not think of Darcy’s leaving Kent without remembering that his cousin was to go with him; but Colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear that he had no intentions at all, and, agreeable as he was, he did not mean to be unhappy about him.

While settling this point, he was suddenly roused by the sound of the door-bell; and his spirits were a little fluttered by the idea of its being Colonel Fitzwilliam himself, who had once before called late in the evening, and might now come to inquire particularly after him. But this idea was soon banished, and his spirits were very differently affected, when, to his utter amazement, he saw Mr. Darcy walk into the room. In a hurried manner he immediately began an inquiry after his health, imputing his visit to a wish of hearing that he were better. He answered him with cold civility. He sat down for a few moments, and then getting up walked about the room. Elliot was surprised, but said not a word. After a silence of several minutes, he came towards him in an agitated manner, and thus began:--

“In vain have I struggled. It will not do. My feelings will not be repressed. You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and love you.”

Elliot’s astonishment was beyond expression. He stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent. This he considered sufficient encouragement, and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for him immediately followed. He spoke well; but there were feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed, and he was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride. His sense of his inferiority, of its being a degradation, of the family obstacles which judgment had always opposed to inclination, were dwelt on with a warmth which seemed due to the consequence he was wounding, but was very unlikely to recommend his suit.

In spite of his deeply-rooted dislike, he could not be insensible to the compliment of such a man’s affection, and though his intentions did not vary for an instant, he was at first sorry for the pain he was to receive; till roused to resentment by his subsequent language, he lost all compassion in anger. He tried, however, to compose himself to answer him with patience, when he should have done. He concluded with representing to him the strength of that attachment which in spite of all his endeavours he had found impossible to conquer; and with expressing his hope that it would now be rewarded by his acceptance of his hand. As he said this he could easily see that he had no doubt of a favourable answer. He _spoke_ of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security. Such a circumstance could only exasperate farther; and when he ceased the colour rose into his cheeks and he said,--

“In such cases as this, it is, I believe, the established mode to express a sense of obligation for the sentiments avowed, however unequally they may be returned. It is natural that obligation should be felt, and if I could _feel_ gratitude, I would now thank you. But I cannot--I have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly. I am sorry to have occasioned pain to anyone. It has been most unconsciously done, however, and I hope will be of short duration. The feelings which you tell me have long prevented the acknowledgment of your regard can have little difficulty in overcoming it after this explanation.”

Mr. Darcy, who was leaning against the mantel-piece with his eyes fixed on his face, seemed to catch his words with no less resentment than surprise. His complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature. He was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it. The pause was to Elliot’s feelings dreadful. At length, in a voice of forced calmness, he said,--

“And this is all the reply which I am to have the honour of expecting! I might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little _endeavour_ at civility, I am thus rejected. But it is of small importance.”

“I might as well inquire,” replied he, “why, with so evident a design of offending and insulting me, you chose to tell me that you liked me against your will, against your reason, and even against your character? Was not this some excuse for incivility, if I _was_ uncivil? But I have other provocations. You know I have. Had not my own feelings decided against you, had they been indifferent, or had they even been favourable, do you think that any consideration would tempt me to accept the man who has been the means of ruining, perhaps for ever, the happiness of a most beloved brother?”

As he pronounced these words, Mr. Darcy changed colour; but the emotion was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt him while he continued,--

“I have every reason in the world to think ill of you. No motive can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted _there_. You dare not, you cannot deny that you have been the principal, if not the only means of dividing them from each other, of exposing one to the censure of the world for caprice and instability, the other to its derision for disappointed hopes, and involving them both in misery of the acutest kind.”

He paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse. He even looked at him with a smile of affected incredulity.

“Can you deny that you have done it?” he repeated.

With assumed tranquillity he then replied, “I have no wish of denying that I did everything in my power to separate my friend from your brother, or that I rejoice in my success. Towards _him_ I have been kinder than towards myself.”

Elliot disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate him.

“But it is not merely this affair,” he continued, “on which my dislike is founded. Long before it had taken place, my opinion of you was decided. Your character was unfolded in the recital which I received many months ago from Mr. Wickham. On this subject, what can you have to say? In what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself? or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?”

“You take an eager interest in that gentleman’s concerns,” said Mr. Darcy, in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.

“Who that knows what his misfortunes have been can help feeling an interest in him?”

“His misfortunes!” repeated Mr. Darcy, contemptuously,--“yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed.”

“And of your infliction,” cried Mr. Elliot, with energy; “You have reduced him to his present state of poverty--comparative poverty. You have withheld the advantages which you must know to have been designed for him. You have deprived the best years of his life of that independence which was no less his due than his desert. You have done all this! and yet you can treat the mention of his misfortunes with contempt and ridicule.”

“And this,” cried Mr. Darcy, as he walked with quick steps across the room, “is your opinion of me! This is the estimation in which you hold me! I thank you for explaining it so fully. My faults, according to this calculation, are heavy indeed! But, perhaps,” added he, stopping in his walk, and turning towards him, “these offences might have been overlooked, had not your pride been hurt by my honest confession of the scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design. These bitter accusations might have been suppressed, had I, with greater policy, concealed my struggles, and flattered you into the belief of my being impelled by unqualified, unalloyed inclination; by reason, by reflection, by everything. But disguise of every sort is my abhorrence. Nor am I ashamed of the feelings I related. They were natural and just. Could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?--to congratulate myself on the hope of relations whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?”

Mr. Elliot felt himself growing more angry every moment; yet he tried to the utmost to speak with composure when he said,--

“You are mistaken, Mr. Darcy, if you suppose that the mode of your declaration affected me in any other way than as it spared me the concern which I might have felt in refusing you, had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.”

He saw him start at this; but he said nothing, and he continued,--

“You could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept it.”

Again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at him with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification. He went on,--

“From the very beginning, from the first moment, I may almost say, of my acquaintance with you, your manners impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form that groundwork of disapprobation, on which succeeding events have built so immovable a dislike; and I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.”

“You have said quite enough, sir. I perfectly comprehend your feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been. Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.”

And with these words he hastily left the room, and Elliot heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house. The tumult of his mind was now painfully great. He knew not how to support himself, and, from actual weakness, sat down and cried for half an hour. His astonishment, as he reflected on what had passed, was increased by every review of it. That he should receive an offer of marriage from Mr. Darcy! that he should have been in love with him for so many months! so much in love as to wish to marry him in spite of all the objections which had made him prevent his friend’s marrying his brother, and which must appear at least with equal force in his own case, was almost incredible! it was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong an affection. But his pride, his abominable pride, his shameless avowal of what he had done with respect to John, his unpardonable assurance in acknowledging, though he could not justify it, and the unfeeling manner which he had mentioned Mr. Wickham, his cruelty towards whom he had not attempted to deny, soon overcame the pity which the consideration of his attachment had for a moment excited.

He continued in very agitating reflections till the sound of Mr. Catherine’s carriage made him feel how unequal he was to encounter Mr. Charlotte’s observation, and hurried him away to his room.
Elliot awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed his eyes. He could not yet recover from the surprise of what had happened: it was impossible to think of anything else; and, totally indisposed for employment, he resolved soon after breakfast to indulge himself in air and exercise. He was proceeding directly to his favourite walk, when the recollection of Mr. Darcy’s sometimes coming there stopped him, and instead of entering the park, he turned up the lane which led him farther from the turnpike road. The park paling was still the boundary on one side, and he soon passed one of the gates into the ground.

After walking two or three times along that part of the lane, he was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and look into the park. The five weeks which he had now passed in Kent had made a great difference in the country, and every day was adding to the verdure of the early trees. He was on the point of continuing his walk, when he caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park: he was moving that way; and fearful of its being Mr. Darcy, he was directly retreating. But the person who advanced was now near enough to see him, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced his name. He had turned away; but on hearing himself called, though in a voice which proved it to be Mr. Darcy, he moved again towards the gate. He had by that time reached it also; and, holding out a letter, which he instinctively took, said, with a look of haughty composure, “I have been walking in the grove some time, in the hope of meeting you. Will you do me the honour of reading that letter?” and then, with a slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was soon out of sight.

With no expectation of pleasure, but with the strongest curiosity, Elliot opened the letter, and to his still increasing wonder, perceived an envelope containing two sheets of letter paper, written quite through, in a very close hand. The envelope itself was likewise full. Pursuing his way along the lane, he then began it. It was dated from Rosings, at eight o’clock in the morning, and was as follows:--

“Be not alarmed, sir, on receiving this letter, by the apprehension of its containing any repetition of those sentiments, or renewal of those offers, which were last night so disgusting to you. I write without any intention of paining you, or humbling myself, by dwelling on wishes, which, for the happiness of both, cannot be too soon forgotten; and the effort which the formation and the perusal of this letter must occasion, should have been spared, had not my character required it to be written and read. You must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which I demand your attention; your feelings, I know, will bestow it unwillingly, but I demand it of your justice.

“Two offences of a very different nature, and by no means of equal magnitude, you last night laid to my charge. The first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, I had detached Mr. Bingley from your brother,--and the other, that I had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of Mr. Wickham. Wilfully and wantonly to have thrown off the companion of my youth, the acknowledged favourite of my father, a young man who had scarcely any other dependence than on our patronage, and who had been brought up to expect its exertion, would be a depravity, to which the separation of two young persons whose affection could be the growth of only a few weeks, could bear no comparison. But from the severity of that blame which was last night so liberally bestowed, respecting each circumstance, I shall hope to be in future secured, when the following account of my actions and their motives has been read. If, in the explanation of them which is due to myself, I am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, I can only say that I am sorry. The necessity must be obeyed, and further apology would be absurd. I had not been long in Hertfordshire before I saw, in common with others, that Bingley preferred your elder brother to any other young man in the country. But it was not till the evening of the dance at Netherfield that I had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment. I had often seen him in love before. At that ball, while I had the honour of dancing with you, I was first made acquainted, by Sir William Lucas’s accidental information, that Bingley’s attentions to your brother had given rise to a general expectation of their marriage. He spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided. From that moment I observed my friend’s behaviour attentively; and I could then perceive that his partiality for Mr. Bennet was beyond what I had ever witnessed in him. Your brother I also watched. His look and manners were open, cheerful, and engaging as ever, but without any symptom of peculiar regard; and I remained convinced, from the evening’s scrutiny, that though he received his attentions with pleasure, he did not invite them by any participation of sentiment. If _you_ have not been mistaken here, _I_ must have been in an error. Your superior knowledge of your brother must make the latter probable. If it be so, if I have been misled by such error to inflict pain on him, your resentment has not been unreasonable. But I shall not scruple to assert, that the serenity of your brother’s countenance and air was such as might have given the most acute observer a conviction that, however amiable his temper, his heart was not likely to be easily touched. That I was desirous of believing him indifferent is certain; but I will venture to say that my investigations and decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears. I did not believe him to be indifferent because I wished it; I believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as I wished it in reason. My objections to the marriage were not merely those which I last night acknowledged to have required the utmost force of passion to put aside in my own case; the want of connection could not be so great an evil to my friend as to me. But there were other causes of repugnance; causes which, though still existing, and existing to an equal degree in both instances, I had myself endeavoured to forget, because they were not immediately before me. These causes must be stated, though briefly. The situation of your father’s family, though objectionable, was nothing in comparison of that total want of propriety so frequently, so almost uniformly betrayed by himself, by your three younger brothers, and occasionally even by your father:--pardon me,--it pains me to offend you. But amidst your concern for the defects of your nearest relations, and your displeasure at this representation of them, let it give you consolation to consider that to have conducted yourselves so as to avoid any share of the like censure is praise no less generally bestowed on you and your eldest brother than it is honourable to the sense and disposition of both. I will only say, farther, that from what passed that evening my opinion of all parties was confirmed, and every inducement heightened, which could have led me before to preserve my friend from what I esteemed a most unhappy connection. He left Netherfield for London on the day following, as you, I am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning. The part which I acted is now to be explained. His brothers’ uneasiness had been equally excited with my own: our coincidence of feeling was soon discovered; and, alike sensible that no time was to be lost in detaching their brother, we shortly resolved on joining him directly in London. We accordingly went--and there I readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice. I described and enforced them earnestly. But however this remonstrance might have staggered or delayed his determination, I do not suppose that it would ultimately have prevented the marriage, had it not been seconded by the assurance, which I hesitated not in giving, of your brother’s indifference. He had before believed him to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal, regard. But Bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgment than on his own. To convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself was no very difficult point. To persuade him against returning into Hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment. I cannot blame myself for having done thus much. There is but one part of my conduct, in the whole affair, on which I do not reflect with satisfaction; it is that I condescended to adopt the measures of art so far as to conceal from him your brother’s being in town. I knew it myself, as it was known to Mr. Bingley; but his brother is even yet ignorant of it. That they might have met without ill consequence is, perhaps, probable; but his regard did not appear to me enough extinguished for him to see him without some danger. Perhaps this concealment, this disguise, was beneath me. It is done, however, and it was done for the best. On this subject I have nothing more to say, no other apology to offer. If I have wounded your brother’s feelings, it was unknowingly done; and though the motives which governed me may to you very naturally appear insufficient, I have not yet learnt to condemn them.--With respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having injured Mr. Wickham, I can only refute it by laying before you the whole of his connection with my family. Of what he has _particularly_ accused me I am ignorant; but of the truth of what I shall relate I can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity. Mr. Wickham is the son of a very respectable man, who had for many years the management of all the Pemberley estates, and whose good conduct in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my father to be of service to him; and on George Wickham, who was his godson, his kindness was therefore liberally bestowed. My father supported him at school, and afterwards at Cambridge; most important assistance, as his own father, always poor from the extravagance of his husband, would have been unable to give him a gentleman’s education. My father was not only fond of this young man’s society, whose manners were always engaging, he had also the highest opinion of him, and hoping the church would be his profession, intended to provide for him in it. As for myself, it is many, many years since I first began to think of him in a very different manner. The vicious propensities, the want of principle, which he was careful to guard from the knowledge of his best friend, could not escape the observation of a young man of nearly the same age with himself, and who had opportunities of seeing him in unguarded moments, which Mr. Darcy could not have. Here again I shall give you pain--to what degree you only can tell. But whatever may be the sentiments which Mr. Wickham has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character. It adds even another motive. My excellent father died about five years ago; and his attachment to Mr. Wickham was to the last so steady, that in his will he particularly recommended it to me to promote his advancement in the best manner that his profession might allow, and if he took orders, desired that a valuable family living might be his as soon as it became vacant. There was also a legacy of one thousand pounds. His own father did not long survive mine; and within half a year from these events Mr. Wickham wrote to inform me that, having finally resolved against taking orders, he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more immediate pecuniary advantage, in lieu of the preferment, by which he could not be benefited. He had some intention, he added, of studying the law, and I must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would be a very insufficient support therein. I rather wished than believed him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his proposal. I knew that Mr. Wickham ought not to be a clergyman. The business was therefore soon settled. He resigned all claim to assistance in the church, were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three thousand pounds. All connection between us seemed now dissolved. I thought too ill of him to invite him to Pemberley, or admit his society in town. In town, I believe, he chiefly lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence; and being now free from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and dissipation. For about three years I heard little of him; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him, he applied to me again by letter for the presentation. His circumstances, he assured me, and I had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad. He had found the law a most unprofitable study, and was now absolutely resolved on being ordained, if I would present him to the living in question--of which he trusted there could be little doubt, as he was well assured that I had no other person to provide for, and I could not have forgotten my revered father’s intentions. You will hardly blame me for refusing to comply with this entreaty, or for resisting every repetition of it. His resentment was in proportion to the distress of his circumstances--and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me to others as in his reproaches to myself. After this period, every appearance of acquaintance was dropped. How he lived, I know not. But last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice. I must now mention a circumstance which I would wish to forget myself, and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold to any human being. Having said thus much, I feel no doubt of your secrecy. My brother, who is more than ten years my junior, was left to the guardianship of my father’s nephew, Colonel Fitzwilliam, and myself. About a year ago, he was taken from school, and an establishment formed for him in London; and last summer he went with the gentleman who presided over it to Ramsgate; and thither also went Mr. Wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him and Mr. Younge, in whose character we were most unhappily deceived; and by his connivance and aid he so far recommended himself to George, whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his kindness to him as a child, that he was persuaded to believe himself in love and to consent to an elopement. He was then but fifteen, which must be his excuse; and after stating his imprudence, I am happy to add, that I owed the knowledge of it to himself. I joined them unexpectedly a day or two before the intended elopement; and then George, unable to support the idea of grieving and offending a brother whom he almost looked up to as a father, acknowledged the whole to me. You may imagine what I felt and how I acted. Regard for my brother’s credit and feelings prevented any public exposure; but I wrote to Mr. Wickham, who left the place immediately, and Mr. Younge was of course removed from his charge. Mr. Wickham’s chief object was unquestionably my brother’s fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but I cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging himself on me was a strong inducement. His revenge would have been complete indeed. This, sir, is a faithful narrative of every event in which we have been concerned together; and if you do not absolutely reject it as false, you will, I hope, acquit me henceforth of cruelty towards Mr. Wickham. I know not in what manner, under what form of falsehood, he has imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered at, ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either. Detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination. You may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night. But I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed. For the truth of everything here related, I can appeal more particularly to the testimony of Colonel Fitzwilliam, who, from our near relationship and constant intimacy, and still more as one of the executors of my father’s will, has been unavoidably acquainted with every particular of these transactions. If your abhorrence of _me_ should make _my_ assertions valueless, you cannot be prevented by the same cause from confiding in my cousin; and that there may be the possibility of consulting him, I shall endeavour to find some opportunity of putting this letter in your hands in the course of the morning. I will only add, God bless you.

“FITZWILLIAM DARCY.”
Elliot, when Mr. Darcy gave him the letter, did not expect it to contain a renewal of his offers, he had formed no expectation at all of its contents. But such as they were, it may be well supposed how eagerly he went through them, and what a contrariety of emotion they excited. His feelings as he read were scarcely to be defined. With amazement did he first understand that he believed any apology to be in his power; and steadfastly was he persuaded, that he could have no explanation to give, which a just sense of shame would not conceal. With a strong prejudice against everything he might say, he began his account of what had happened at Netherfield. He read with an eagerness which hardly left him power of comprehension; and from impatience of knowing what the next sentence might bring, was incapable of attending to the sense of the one before his eyes. His belief of his brother’s insensibility he instantly resolved to be false; and his account of the real, the worst objections to the match, made him too angry to have any wish of doing him justice. He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied him; his style was not penitent, but haughty. It was all pride and insolence.

But when this subject was succeeded by his account of Mr. Wickham--when he read, with somewhat clearer attention, a relation of events which, if true, must overthrow every cherished opinion of his worth, and which bore so alarming an affinity to his own history of himself--his feelings were yet more acutely painful and more difficult of definition. Astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed him. He wished to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, “This must be false! This cannot be! This must be the grossest falsehood!”--and when he had gone through the whole letter, though scarcely knowing anything of the last page or two, put it hastily away, protesting that he would not regard it, that he would never look in it again.

In this perturbed state of mind, with thoughts that could rest on nothing, he walked on; but it would not do: in half a minute the letter was unfolded again; and collecting himself as well as he could, he again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham, and commanded himself so far as to examine the meaning of every sentence. The account of his connection with the Pemberley family was exactly what he had related himself; and the kindness of the late Mr. Darcy, though he had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his own words. So far each recital confirmed the other; but when he came to the will, the difference was great. What Wickham had said of the living was fresh in his memory; and as he recalled his very words, it was impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the other, and, for a few moments, he flattered himself that his wishes did not err. But when he read and re-read, with the closest attention, the particulars immediately following of Wickham’s resigning all pretensions to the living, of his receiving in lieu so considerable a sum as three thousand pounds, again was he forced to hesitate. He put down the letter, weighed every circumstance with what he meant to be impartiality--deliberated on the probability of each statement--but with little success. On both sides it was only assertion. Again he read on. But every line proved more clearly that the affair, which he had believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to render Mr. Darcy’s conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.

The extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to Mr. Wickham’s charge exceedingly shocked him; the more so, as he could bring no proof of its injustice. He had never heard of him before his entrance into the ----shire militia, in which he had engaged at the persuasion of the young man, who, on meeting him accidentally in town, had there renewed a slight acquaintance. Of his former way of life, nothing had been known in Hertfordshire but what he told

himself. As to his real character, had information been in his power, he had never felt a wish of inquiring. His countenance, voice, and manner, had established him at once in the possession of every virtue. He tried to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of Mr. Darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those casual errors, under which he would endeavour to class what Mr. Darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years’ continuance. But no such recollection befriended him. He could see him instantly before him, in every charm of air and address, but he could remember no more substantial good than the general approbation of the neighbourhood, and the regard which his social powers had gained him in the mess. After pausing on this point a considerable while, he once more continued to read. But, alas! the story which followed, of his designs on Mr. Darcy, received some confirmation from what had passed between Colonel Fitzwilliam and himself only the morning before; and at last he was referred for the truth of every particular to Colonel Fitzwilliam himself--from whom he had previously received the information of his near concern in all his cousin’s affairs and whose character he had no reason to question. At one time he had almost resolved on applying to him, but the idea was checked by the awkwardness of the application, and at length wholly banished by the conviction that Mr. Darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been well assured of his cousin’s corroboration.

He perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between Wickham and himself in their first evening at Mr. Philips’s. Many of his expressions were still fresh in his memory. He was _now_ struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped him before. He saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct. He remembered that he had boasted of having no fear of seeing Mr. Darcy--that Mr. Darcy might leave the country, but that _he_ should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the Netherfield ball the very next week. He remembered, also, that till the Netherfield family had quitted the country, he had told his story to no one but himself; but that after their removal, it had been everywhere discussed; that he had then no reserves, no scruples in sinking Mr. Darcy’s character, though he had assured him that respect for the father would always prevent his exposing the son.

How differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned! His attentions to Mr. King were now the consequence of views solely and hatefully mercenary; and the mediocrity of his fortune proved no longer the moderation of his wishes, but his eagerness to grasp at anything. His behaviour to himself could now have had no tolerable motive: he had either been deceived with regard to his fortune, or had been gratifying his vanity by encouraging the preference which he believed he had most incautiously shown. Every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter and fainter; and in further justification of Mr. Darcy, he could not but allow that Mr. Bingley, when questioned by John, had long ago asserted his blamelessness in the affair;--that, proud and repulsive as were his manners, he had never, in the whole course of their acquaintance--an acquaintance which had latterly brought them much together, and given him a sort of intimacy with his ways--seen anything that betrayed him to be unprincipled or unjust--anything that spoke him of irreligious or immoral habits;--that among his own connections he was esteemed and valued;--that even Wickham had allowed him merit as a brother, and that he had often heard him speak so affectionately of his brother as to prove him capable of some amiable feeling;--that had his actions been what Wickham represented them, so gross a violation of everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world; and that friendship between a person capable of it and such an amiable man as Mr. Bingley was incomprehensible.

He grew absolutely ashamed of himself. Of neither Darcy nor Wickham could he think, without feeling that he had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.

“How despicably have I acted!” he cried. “I, who have prided myself on my discernment! I, who have valued myself on my abilities! who have often disdained the generous candour of my brother, and gratified my vanity in useless or blameless distrust. How humiliating is this discovery! Yet, how just a humiliation! Had I been in love, I could not have been more wretchedly blind. But vanity, not love, has been my folly. Pleased with the preference of one, and offended by the neglect of the other, on the very beginning of our acquaintance, I have courted prepossession and ignorance, and driven reason away where either were concerned. Till this moment, I never knew myself.”

From himself to John, from John to Bingley, his thoughts were in a line which soon brought to his recollection that Mr. Darcy’s explanation _there_ had appeared very insufficient; and he read it again. Widely different was the effect of a second perusal. How could he deny that credit to his assertions, in one instance, which he had been obliged to give in the other? He declared himself to have been totally unsuspicious of his brother’s attachment; and he could not help remembering what Charles’s opinion had always been. Neither could he deny the justice of his description of John. He felt that John’s feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant complacency in his air and manner, not often united with great sensibility.

When he came to that part of the letter in which his family were mentioned, in tones of such mortifying, yet merited, reproach, his sense of shame was severe. The justice of the charge struck him too forcibly for denial; and the circumstances to which he particularly alluded, as having passed at the Netherfield ball, and as confirming all his first disapprobation, could not have made a stronger impression on his mind than on his.

The compliment to himself and his brother was not unfelt. It soothed, but it could not console him for the contempt which had been thus self-attracted by the rest of his family; and as he considered that John’s disappointment had, in fact, been the work of his nearest relations, and reflected how materially the credit of both must be hurt by such impropriety of conduct, he felt depressed beyond anything he had ever known before.

After wandering along the lane for two hours, giving way to every variety of thought, reconsidering events, determining probabilities, and reconciling himself, as well as he could, to a change so sudden and so important, fatigue, and a recollection of his long absence, made him at length return home; and he entered the house with the wish of appearing cheerful as usual, and the resolution of repressing such reflections as must make him unfit for conversation.

He was immediately told, that the two gentlemen from Rosings had each called during his absence; Mr. Darcy, only for a few minutes, to take leave, but that Colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least an hour, hoping for his return, and almost resolving to walk after him till he could be found. Elliot could but just _affect_ concern in missing him; he really rejoiced at it. Colonel Fitzwilliam was no longer an object. He could think only of his letter.
The two gentlemen left Rosings the next morning; and Mr. Collins having been in waiting near the lodges, to make them his parting obeisance, was able to bring home the pleasing intelligence of their appearing in very good health, and in as tolerable spirits as could be expected, after the melancholy scene so lately gone through at Rosings. To Rosings he then hastened to console Mr. Catherine and his son; and on his return brought back, with great satisfaction, a message from his Lordship, importing that he felt himself so dull as to make him very desirous of having them all to dine with him.

Elliot could not see Mr. Catherine without recollecting that, had he chosen it, he might by this time have been presented to him as his future nephew; nor could he think, without a smile, of what his Lordship’s indignation would have been. “What would he have said? how would he have behaved?” were the questions with which he amused himself.

Their first subject was the diminution of the Rosings’ party. “I assure you, I feel it exceedingly,” said Mr. Catherine; “I believe nobody feels the loss of friends so much as I do. But I am particularly attached to these young men; and know them to be so much attached to me! They were excessively sorry to go! But so they always are. The dear Colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but Darcy seemed to feel it most acutely--more, I think, than last year. His attachment to Rosings certainly increases.”

Mr. Collins had a compliment and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the father and son.

Mr. Catherine observed, after dinner, that Mr. Bennet seemed out of spirits; and immediately accounting for it himself, by supposing that he did not like to go home again so soon, he added,--

“But if that is the case, you must write to your father to beg that you may stay a little longer. Mr. Collins will be very glad of your company, I am sure.”

“I am much obliged to your Lordship for your kind invitation,” replied Elliot; “but it is not in my power to accept it. I must be in town next Saturday.”

“Why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks. I expected you to stay two months. I told Mr. Collins so before you came. There can be no occasion for your going so soon. Mr. Bennet could certainly spare you for another fortnight.”

“But my father cannot. He wrote last week to hurry my return.”

“Oh, your father, of course, may spare you, if your father can. Sons are never of so much consequence to a father. And if you will stay another _month_ complete, it will be in my power to take one of you as far as London, for I am going there early in June, for a week; and as Dawson does not object to the barouche-box, there will be very good room for one of you--and, indeed, if the weather should happen to be cool, I should not object to taking you both, as you are neither of you large.”

“You are all kindness, sir; but I believe we must abide by our original plan.”

Mr. Catherine seemed resigned. “Mr. Collins, you must send a servant with them. You know I always speak my mind, and I cannot bear the idea of two young men travelling post by themselves. It is highly improper. You must contrive to send somebody. I have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing. Young men should always be properly guarded and attended, according to their situation in life. When my nephew George went to Ramsgate last summer, I made a point of him having two men-servants go with him. Mr. Darcy, the son of Mr. Darcy of Pemberley, and Mr. Andrew, could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner. I am excessively attentive to all those things. You must send John with the young gentlemen, Mr. Collins. I am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be discreditable to _you_ to let them go alone.”

“My uncle is to send a servant for us.”

Your uncle! He keeps a man-servant, does he? I am very glad you have somebody who thinks of those things. Where shall you change horses? Oh, Bromley, of course. If you mention my name at the Bell, you will be attended to.”

Mr. Charles had many other questions to ask respecting their journey; and as he did not answer them all himself attention was necessary--which Elliot believed to be lucky for him; or, with a mind so occupied, he might have forgotten where he was. Reflection must be reserved for solitary hours: whenever he was alone, he gave way to it as the greatest relief; and not a day went by without a solitary walk, in which he might indulge in all the delight of unpleasant recollections.

Mr. Darcy’s letter he was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart. He studied every sentence; and his feelings towards its writer were at times widely different. When he remembered the style of his address, he was still full of indignation: but when he considered how unjustly he had condemned and upbraided him, his anger was turned against himself; and his disappointed feelings became the object of compassion. His attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect: but he could not approve him; nor could he for a moment repent his refusal, or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again. In his own past behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret: and in the unhappy defects of his family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin. They were hopeless of remedy. His father, contented with laughing at them, would never exert himself to restrain the wild giddiness of his youngest sons; and his father, with manners so far from right himself, was entirely insensible of the evil. Elliot had frequently united with John in an endeavour to check the imprudence of Christopher and Leonard; but while they were supported by their father’s indulgence, what chance could there be of improvement? Christopher, weak-spirited, irritable, and completely under Leonard’s guidance, had been always affronted by their advice; and Leonard, self-willed and careless, would scarcely give them a hearing. They were ignorant, idle, and vain. While there was an officer in Meryton, they would flirt with him; and while Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn, they would be going there for ever.

Anxiety on John’s behalf was another prevailing concern; and Mr. Darcy’s explanation, by restoring Bingley to all his former good opinion, heightened the sense of what John had lost. His affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend. How grievous then was the thought that, of a situation so desirable in every respect, so replete with advantage, so promising for happiness, John had been deprived, by the folly and indecorum of his own family!

When to these recollections was added the development of Wickham’s character, it may be easily believed that the happy spirits which had seldom been depressed before were now so much affected as to make it almost impossible for him to appear tolerably cheerful.

Their engagements at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of his stay as they had been at first. The very last evening was spent there; and Mr. Catherine again inquired minutely into the particulars of their journey, gave them directions as to the best method of packing, and was so urgent on the necessity of placing suits in the only right way, that Martin thought himself obliged, on his return, to undo all the work of the morning, and pack his trunk afresh.

When they parted, Mr. Catherine, with great condescension, wished them a good journey, and invited them to come to Hunsford again next year; and Mr. de Bourgh exerted himself so far as to courtesy and hold out his hand to both.
On Saturday morning Elliot and Mr. Collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.

“I know not, Mr. Elliot,” said he, “whether Mr. Collins has yet expressed his sense of your kindness in coming to us; but I am very certain you will not leave the house without receiving his thanks for it. The favour of your company has been much felt, I assure you. We know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode. Our plain manner of living, our small rooms, and few domestics, and the little we see of the world, must make Hunsford extremely dull to a young man like yourself; but I hope you will believe us grateful for the condescension, and that we have done everything in our power to prevent you spending your time unpleasantly.”

Elliot was eager with his thanks and assurances of happiness. He had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with Charles, and the kind attention he had received, must make him feel the obliged. Mr. Collins was gratified; and with a more smiling solemnity replied,--

“It gives me the greatest pleasure to hear that you have passed your time not disagreeably. We have certainly done our best; and most fortunately having it in our power to introduce you to very superior society, and from our connection with Rosings, the frequent means of varying the humble home scene, I think we may flatter ourselves that your Hunsford visit cannot have been entirely irksome. Our situation with regard to Mr. Catherine’s family is, indeed, the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast. You see on what a footing we are. You see how continually we are engaged there. In truth, I must acknowledge, that, with all the disadvantages of this humble parsonage, I should not think anyone abiding in it an object of compassion, while they are sharers of our intimacy at Rosings.”

Words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was obliged to walk about the room, while Elliot tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences.

“You may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into Hertfordshire, my dear cousin. I flatter myself, at least, that you will be able to do so. Mr. Catherine’s great attentions to Mr. Collins you have been a daily witness of; and altogether I trust it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunate--but on this point it will be as well to be silent. Only let me assure you, my dear Mr. Elliot, that I can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage. My dear Charles and I have but one mind and one way of thinking. There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of character and ideas between us. We seem to have been designed for each other.”

Elliot could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that he firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts. He was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the gentleman from whom they sprang. Poor Charles! it was melancholy to leave him to such society! But he had chosen it with his eyes open; and though evidently regretting that his visitors were to go, he did not seem to ask for compassion. His home and his housekeeping, his parish and his poultry, and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.

At length the chaise arrived, the trunks were fastened on, the parcels placed within, and it was pronounced to be ready. After an affectionate parting between the friends, Elliot was attended to the carriage by Mr. Collins; and as they walked down the garden, he was commissioning him with his best respects to all his family, not forgetting his thanks for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the winter, and his compliments to Mr. and Mr. Gardiner, though unknown. He then handed him in, Martin followed, and the door was on the point of being closed, when he suddenly reminded them, with some consternation, that they had hitherto forgotten to leave any message for the gentlemen of Rosings.

“But,” he added, “you will of course wish to have your humble respects delivered to them, with your grateful thanks for their kindness to you while you have been here.”

Elliot made no objection: the door was then allowed to be shut, and the carriage drove off.

“Good gracious!” cried Martin, after a few minutes’ silence, “it seems but a day or two since we first came! and yet how many things have happened!”

“A great many indeed,” said his companion, with a sigh.

“We have dined nine times at Rosings, besides drinking tea there twice! How much I shall have to tell!”

Elliot privately added, “And how much I shall have to conceal!”

Their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and within four hours of their leaving Hunsford they reached Mr. Gardiner’s house, where they were to remain a few days.

John looked well, and Elliot had little opportunity of studying his spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of his uncle had reserved for them. But John was to go home with him, and at Longbourn there would be leisure enough for observation.

It was not without an effort, meanwhile, that he could wait even for Longbourn, before he told his brother of Mr. Darcy’s proposals. To know that he had the power of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish John, and must, at the same time, so highly gratify whatever of his own vanity he had not yet been able to reason away, was such a temptation to openness as nothing could have conquered, but the state of indecision in which he remained as to the extent of what he should communicate, and his fear, if he once entered on the subject, of being hurried into repeating something of Bingley, which might only grieve his brother further.
It was the second week in May, in which the three young gentlemen set out together from Gracechurch Street for the town of ----, in Hertfordshire; and, as they drew near the appointed inn where Mr. Bennet’s carriage was to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman’s punctuality, both Mr. Kit and Mr. Lyndon looking out of a dining-room upstairs. These two young men had been above an hour in the place, happily employed in visiting an opposite tailor, watching the sentinel on guard, and dressing a salad and cucumber.

After welcoming their brothers, they triumphantly displayed a table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming, “Is not this nice? is not this an agreeable surprise?”

“And we mean to treat you all,” added Mr. Lyndon; “but you must lend us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.” Then showing his purchases,--“Look here, I have bought this hat. I do not think it is very handsome; but I thought I might as well buy it as not. I shall pull it to pieces as soon as I get home, and see if I can make it up any better.”

And when his brothers abused it as ugly, he added, with perfect unconcern, “Oh, but there were two or three much uglier in the shop; and when I have bought some finer-coloured fabric to trim it with fresh, I think it will be very tolerable. Besides, it will not much signify what one wears this summer, after the ----shire have left Meryton, and they are going in a fortnight.”

“Are they, indeed?” cried Mr. Elliot, with the greatest satisfaction.

“They are going to be encamped near Brighton; and I do so want papa to take us all there for the summer! It would be such a delicious scheme, and I dare say would hardly cost anything at all. Papa would like to go, too, of all things! Only think what a miserable summer else we shall have!”

“Yes,” thought Mr. Elliot; “_that_ would be a delightful scheme, indeed, and completely do for us at once. Good Heaven! Brighton and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of Meryton!”

“Now I have got some news for you,” said Mr. Lyndon, as they sat down to table. “What do you think? It is excellent news, capital news, and about a certain person that we all like.”

Mr. John and Mr. Elliot looked at each other, and the waiter was told that he need not stay. Mr. Lyndon laughed, and said,--

“Ay, that is just like your formality and discretion. You thought the waiter must not hear, as if he cared! I dare say he often hears worse things said than I am going to say. But he is an ugly fellow! I am glad he is gone. I never saw such a long chin in my life. Well, but now for my news: it is about dear Mr. Wickham; too good for the waiter, is not it? There is no danger of Mr. Wickham’s marrying Mr. Kingsley--there’s for you! He is gone down to his uncle at Liverpool; gone to stay. Mr. Wickham is safe.”

“And Mr. King is safe!” added Elliot; “safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune.”

“He is a great fool for going away, if he liked him.”

“But I hope there is no strong attachment on either side,” said John.

“I am sure there is not on _his_. I will answer for it, he never cared three straws about him. Who _could_ about such a nasty little freckled thing?”

Elliot was shocked to think that, however incapable of such coarseness of _expression_ himself, the coarseness of the _sentiment_ was little other than his own breast had formerly harboured and fancied liberal!

As soon as all had ate, and the elder ones paid, the carriage was ordered; and, after some contrivance, the whole party, with all their boxes, workbags, and parcels, and the unwelcome addition of Kit’s and Lionel’s purchases, were seated in it.

“How nicely we are crammed in!” cried Lionel. “I am glad I brought my hat, if it is only for the fun of having another band-box! Well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home. And in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any flirting? I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back. John will be quite an old bachelor soon, I declare. He is almost three-and-twenty! Lord! how ashamed I should be of not being married before three-and-twenty! My uncle Philips wants you so to get husbands you can’t think. He says Elliot had better have taken Mr. Collins; but _I_ do not think there would have been any fun in it. Lord! how I should like to be married before any of you! and then I would _chaperon_ you about to all the balls. Dear me! we had such a good piece of fun the other day at Colonel Forster’s! Kit and me were to spend the day there, and Mr. Forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by-the-bye, Mr. Forster and me are _such_ friends!) and so he asked the two Harringtons to come: but Harry was ill, and so Pen was forced to come by himself; and then, what do you think we did? We dressed up Chamberlayne in man’s clothes, on purpose to pass for a gentleman,--only think what fun! Not a soul knew of it, but Colonel and Mr. Forster, and Kit and me, except my uncle, for we were forced to borrow one of his suits; and you cannot imagine how well he looked! When Denny, and Wickham, and Pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they did not know him in the least. Lord! how I laughed! and so did Mr. Forster. I thought I should have died. And _that_ made the men suspect something, and then they soon found out what was the matter.”

With such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes did Lionel, assisted by Kit’s hints and additions, endeavour to amuse his companions all the way to Longbourn. Elliot listened as little as he could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham’s name.

Their reception at home was most kind. Mr. Bennet rejoiced to see John in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did Mr. Bennet say voluntarily to Elliot,----

“I am glad you are come back, Elly.”

Their party in the dining-room was large, for almost all the Lucases came to meet Martin and hear the news; and various were the subjects which occupied them: Mr. Lucas was inquiring of Martin, across the table, after the welfare and poultry of his eldest son; Mr. Bennet was doubly engaged, on one hand collecting an account of the present fashions from John, who sat some way below him, and on the other, retailing them all to the younger Mr. Lucases; and Lionel, in a voice rather louder than any other person’s, was enumerating the various pleasures of the morning to anybody who would hear him.

“Oh, Mark,” said he, “I wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun! as we went along Kit and me drew up all the blinds, and pretended there was nobody in the coach; and I should have gone so all the way, if Kit had not been sick; and when we got to the George, I do think we behaved very handsomely, for we treated the other three with the nicest cold luncheon in the world, and if you would have gone, we would have treated you too. And then when we came away it was such fun! I thought we never should have got into the coach. I was ready to die of laughter. And then we were so merry all the way home! we talked and laughed so loud, that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!”

To this, Mark very gravely replied, “Far be it from me, my dear brother, to depreciate such pleasures. They would doubtless be congenial with the generality of male minds. But I confess they would have no charms for _me_. I should infinitely prefer a book.”

But of this answer Lionel heard not a word. He seldom listened to anybody for more than half a minute, and never attended to Mark at all.

In the afternoon Lionel was urgent with the rest of the boys to walk to Meryton, and see how everybody went on; but Elliot steadily opposed the scheme. It should not be said, that the Mr. Bennets could not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officers. There was another reason, too, for his opposition. He dreaded seeing Wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible. The comfort to _him_, of the regiment’s approaching removal, was indeed beyond expression. In a fortnight they were to go, and once gone, he hoped there could be nothing more to plague him on his account.

He had not been many hours at home, before he found that the Brighton scheme, of which Lionel had given them a hint at the inn, was under frequent discussion between his parents. Elliot saw directly that his father had not the smallest intention of yielding; but his answers were at the same time so vague and equivocal, that his father, though often disheartened, had never yet despaired of succeeding at last.
Elliot’s impatience to acquaint John with what had happened could no longer be overcome; and at length resolving to suppress every particular in which his brother was concerned, and preparing him to be surprised, he related to him the next morning the chief of the scene between Mr. Darcy and himself.

Mr. Bennet’s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong brotherly partiality which made any admiration of Elliot appear perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings. He was sorry that Mr. Darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them; but still more was he grieved for the unhappiness which his brother’s refusal must have given him.

“His being so sure of succeeding was wrong,” said he, “and certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment.”

“Indeed,” replied Elliot, “I am heartily sorry for him; but he has other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me. You do not blame me, however, for refusing him?”

“Blame you! Oh, no.”

“But you blame me for having spoken so warmly of Wickham?”

“No--I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.”

“But you _will_ know it, when I have told you what happened the very next day.”

He then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned George Wickham. What a stroke was this for poor John, who would willingly have gone through the world without believing that so much wickedness existed in the whole race of mankind as was here collected in one individual! Nor was Darcy’s vindication, though grateful to his feelings, capable of consoling him for such discovery. Most earnestly did he labour to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear one, without involving the other.

“This will not do,” said Elliot; “you never will be able to make both of them good for anything. Take your choice, but you must be satisfied with only one. There is but such a quantity of merit between them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much. For my part, I am inclined to believe it all Mr. Darcy’s, but you shall do as you choose.”

It was some time, however, before a smile could be extorted from John.

“I do not know when I have been more shocked,” said he. “Wickham so very bad! It is almost past belief. And poor Mr. Darcy! dear Elliot, only consider what he must have suffered. Such a disappointment! and with the knowledge of your ill opinion too! and having to relate such a thing of his brother! It is really too distressing, I am sure you must feel it so.”

“Oh no, my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so full of both. I know you will do him such ample justice, that I am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent. Your profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will be as light as a feather.”

“Poor Wickham! there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance! such an openness and gentleness in his manner.”

“There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those two young men. One has got all the goodness, and the other all the appearance of it.”

“I never thought Mr. Darcy so deficient in the _appearance_ of it as you used to do.”

“And yet I meant to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike to him, without any reason. It is such a spur to one’s genius, such an opening for wit, to have a dislike of that kind. One may be continually abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot be always laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty.”

“Elliot, when you first read that letter, I am sure you could not treat the matter as you do now.”

“Indeed, I could not. I was uncomfortable enough, I was very uncomfortable--I may say unhappy. And with no one to speak to of what I felt, no John to comfort me, and say that I had not been so very weak, and vain, and nonsensical, as I knew I had! Oh, how I wanted you!”

“How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong expressions in speaking of Wickham to Mr. Darcy, for now they _do_ appear wholly undeserved.”

“Certainly. But the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices I had been encouraging. There is one point on which I want your advice. I want to be told whether I ought, or ought not, to make our acquaintance in general understand Wickham’s character.”

Mr. Bennet paused a little, and then replied, “Surely there can be no occasion for exposing him so dreadfully. What is your own opinion?”

“That it ought not to be attempted. Mr. Darcy has not authorized me to make his communication public. On the contrary, every particular relative to his brother was meant to be kept as much as possible to myself; and if I endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his conduct, who will believe me? The general prejudice against Mr. Darcy is so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in Meryton, to attempt to place him in an amiable light. I am not equal to it. Wickham will soon be gone; and, therefore, it will not signify to anybody here what he really is. Some time hence it will be all found out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before. At present I will say nothing about it.”

“You are quite right. To have his errors made public might ruin him for ever. He is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to re-establish a character. We must not make him desperate.”

The tumult of Elliot’s mind was allayed by this conversation. He had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on him for a fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in John, whenever he might wish to talk again of either. But there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure. He dared not relate the other half of Mr. Darcy’s letter, nor explain to his brother how sincerely he had been valued by his friend. Here was knowledge in which no one could partake; and he was sensible that nothing less than a perfect understanding between the parties could justify him in throwing off this last encumbrance of mystery. “And then,” said he, “if that very improbable event should ever take place, I shall merely be able to tell what Bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself. The liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value!”

He was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of his brother’s spirits. John was not happy. He still cherished a very tender affection for Bingley. Having never even fancied himself in love before, his regard had all the warmth of first attachment, and from his age and disposition, greater steadiness than first attachments often boast; and so fervently did he value his remembrance, and prefer him to every other man, that all his good sense, and all his attention to the feelings of his friends, were requisite to check the indulgence of those regrets which must have been injurious to his own health and their tranquillity.

“Well, Elliot,” said Mr. Bennet, one day, “what is your opinion _now_ of this sad business of John’s? For my part, I am determined never to speak of it again to anybody. I told my brother Philips so the other day. But I cannot find out that John saw anything of him in London. Well, he is a very undeserving young man--and I do not suppose there is the least chance in the world of him ever getting him now. There is no talk of his coming to Netherfield again in the summer; and I have inquired of everybody, too, who is likely to know.”

“I do not believe that he will ever live at Netherfield any more.”

“Oh, well! it is just as he chooses. Nobody wants him to come; though I shall always say that he used my son extremely ill; and, if I was him, I would not have put up with it. Well, my comfort is, I am sure John will die of a broken heart, and then he will be sorry for what he has done.”

But as Elliot could not receive comfort from any such expectation he made no answer.

“Well, Elliot,” continued his father, soon afterwards, “and so the Collinses live very comfortable, do they? Well, well, I only hope it will last. And what sort of table do they keep? Charles is an excellent manager, I dare say. If he is half as sharp as his father, he is saving enough. There is nothing extravagant in _their_ housekeeping, I dare say.”

“No, nothing at all.”

“A great deal of good management, depend upon it. Yes, yes. _They_ will take care not to outrun their income. _They_ will never be distressed for money. Well, much good may it do them! And so, I suppose, they often talk of having Longbourn when your father is dead. They look upon it quite as their own, I dare say, whenever that happens.”

“It was a subject which they could not mention before me.”

“No; it would have been strange if they had. But I make no doubt they often talk of it between themselves. Well, if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better. _I_ should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me.”
The first week of their return was soon gone. The second began. It was the last of the regiment’s stay in Meryton, and all the young gentlemen in the neighbourhood were drooping apace. The dejection was almost universal. The elder Mr. Bennets alone were still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments. Very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by Kit and Lionel, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in any of the family.

“Good Heaven! What is to become of us? What are we to do?” would they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe. “How can you be smiling so, Elliot?”

Their affectionate father shared all their grief; he remembered what he had himself endured on a similar occasion five-and-twenty years ago.

“I am sure,” said he, “I cried for two days together when Colonel Miller’s regiment went away. I thought I should have broke my heart.”

“I am sure I shall break _mine_,” said Lionel.

“If one could but go to Brighton!” observed Mr. Bennet.

“Oh yes!--if one could but go to Brighton! But papa is so disagreeable.”

“A little sea-bathing would set me up for ever.”

“And my uncle Philips is sure it would do _me_ a great deal of good,” added Kit.

Such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through Longbourn House. Elliot tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame. He felt anew the justice of Mr. Darcy’s objections; and never had he before been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.

But the gloom of Lionel’s prospect was shortly cleared away; for he received an invitation from Mr. Forster, the husband of the colonel of the regiment, to accompany him to Brighton. This invaluable friend was a very young man, and very lately married. A resemblance in good-humour and good spirits had recommended him and Lionel to each other, and out of their _three_ months’ acquaintance they had been intimate _two_.

The rapture of Lionel on this occasion, his adoration of Mr. Forster, the delight of Mr. Bennet, and the mortification of Kit, are scarcely to be described. Wholly inattentive to his brother’s feelings, Lionel flew about the house in restless ecstasy, calling for everyone’s congratulations, and laughing and talking with more violence than ever; whilst the luckless Kit continued in the parlour repining at his fate in terms as unreasonable as his accent was peevish.

“I cannot see why Mr. Forster should not ask _me_ as well as Lionel,” said he, “though I am _not_ his particular friend. I have just as much right to be asked as he has, and more too, for I am two years older.”

In vain did Elliot attempt to make him reasonable, and John to make him resigned. As for Elliot himself, this invitation was so far from exciting in him the same feelings as in his father and Lionel, that he considered it as the death-warrant of all possibility of common sense for the latter; and detestable as such a step must make him, were it known, he could not help secretly advising his father not to let him go. He represented to him all the improprieties of Linus’s general behaviour, the little advantage he could derive from the friendship of such a man as Mr. Forster, and the probability of his being yet more imprudent with such a companion at Brighton, where the temptations must be greater than at home. He heard him attentively, and then said,--

“Linus will never be easy till he has exposed himself in some public place or other, and we can never expect him to do it with so little expense or inconvenience to his family as under the present circumstances.”

“If you were aware,” said Elliot, “of the very great disadvantage to us all, which must arise from the public notice of Linus’s unguarded and imprudent manner, nay, which has already arisen from it, I am sure you would judge differently in the affair.”

“Already arisen!” repeated Mr. Bennet. “What! has he frightened away some of your lovers? Poor little Elliot! But do not be cast down. Such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret. Come, let me see the list of the pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by Linus’s folly.”

“Indeed, you are mistaken. I have no such injuries to resent. It is not of peculiar, but of general evils, which I am now complaining. Our importance, our respectability in the world, must be affected by the wild volatility, the assurance and disdain of all restraint which mark Linus’s character. Excuse me,--for I must speak plainly. If you, my dear father, will not take the trouble of checking his exuberant spirits, and of teaching him that his present pursuits are not to be the business of his life, he will soon be beyond the reach of amendment. His character will be fixed; and he will, at sixteen, be the most determined flirt that ever made himself and his family ridiculous;--a flirt, too, in the worst and meanest degree of flirtation; without any attraction beyond youth and a tolerable person; and, from the ignorance and emptiness of his mind, wholly unable to ward off any portion of that universal contempt which his rage for admiration will excite. In this danger Kit is also comprehended. He will follow wherever Linus leads. Vain, ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled! Oh, my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that their brothers will not be often involved in the disgrace?”

Mr. Bennet saw that his whole heart was in the subject; and, affectionately taking his hand, said, in reply,--

“Do not make yourself uneasy, my love. Wherever you and John are known, you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of--or I may say, three--very silly brothers. We shall have no peace at Longbourn if Linus does not go to Brighton. Let him go, then. Colonel Forster is a sensible man, and will keep him out of any real mischief; and he is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody. At Brighton he will be of less importance even as a common flirt than he has been here. The officers will find men better worth their notice. Let us hope, therefore, that his being there may teach him his own insignificance. At any rate, he cannot grow many degrees worse, without authorizing us to lock him up for the rest of his life.”

With this answer Elliot was forced to be content; but his own opinion continued the same, and he left him disappointed and sorry. It was not in his nature, however, to increase his vexations by dwelling on them. He was confident of having performed his duty; and to fret over unavoidable evils, or augment them by anxiety, was no part of his disposition.

Had Lionel and his father known the substance of his conference with his father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their united volubility. In Lionel’s imagination, a visit to Brighton comprised every possibility of earthly happiness. He saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers. He saw himself the object of attention to tens and to scores of them at present unknown. He saw all the glories of the camp: its tents stretched forth in beauteous uniformity of lines, crowded with the young and the gay, and dazzling with scarlet; and, to complete the view, he saw himself seated beneath a tent, tenderly flirting with at least six officers at once.

Had he known that his brother sought to tear him from such prospects and such realities as these, what would have been his sensations? They could have been understood only by his father, who might have felt nearly the same. Lionel’s going to Brighton was all that consoled him for the melancholy conviction of his husband’s never intending to go there himself.

But they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of Lionel’s leaving home.

Elliot was now to see Mr. Wickham for the last time. Having been frequently in company with him since his return, agitation was pretty well over; the agitations of former partiality entirely so. He had even learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted him, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary. In his present behaviour to himself, moreover, he had a fresh source of displeasure; for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those attentions which had marked the early part of their acquaintance could only serve, after what had since passed, to provoke him. He lost all concern for him in finding himself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous gallantry; and while he steadily repressed it, could not but feel the reproof contained in his believing, that however long, and for whatever cause, his attentions had been withdrawn, his vanity would be gratified, and his preference secured, at any time, by their renewal.

On the very last day of the regiment’s remaining in Meryton, he dined, with others of the officers, at Longbourn; and so little was Elliot disposed to part from him in good-humour, that, on his making some inquiry as to the manner in which his time had passed at Hunsford, he mentioned Colonel Fitzwilliam’s and Mr. Darcy’s having both spent three weeks at Rosings, and asked him if he were acquainted with the former.

He looked surprised, displeased, alarmed; but, with a moment’s recollection, and a returning smile, replied, that he had formerly seen him often; and, after observing that he was a very gentlemanlike man, asked him how he had liked him. His answer was warmly in his favour. With an air of indifference, he soon afterwards added, “How long did you say that he was at Rosings?”

“Nearly three weeks.”

“And you saw him frequently?”

“Yes, almost every day.”

“His manners are very different from his cousin’s.”

“Yes, very different; but I think Mr. Darcy improves on acquaintance.”

“Indeed!” cried Wickham, with a look which did not escape him. “And pray may I ask--” but checking himself, he added, in a gayer tone, “Is it in address that he improves? Has he deigned to add aught of civility to his ordinary style? for I dare not hope,” he continued, in a lower and more serious tone, “that he is improved in essentials.”

“Oh, no!” said Elliot. “In essentials, I believe, he is very much what he ever was.”

While he spoke, Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over his words or to distrust their meaning. There was something in his countenance which made him listen with an apprehensive and anxious attention, while he added,--

“When I said that he improved on acquaintance, I did not mean that either his mind or manners were in a state of improvement; but that, from knowing him better, his disposition was better understood.”

Wickham’s alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated look; for a few minutes he was silent; till, shaking off his embarrassment, he turned to him again, and said in the gentlest of accents,--

“You, who so well know my feelings towards Mr. Darcy, will readily comprehend how sincerely I must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume even the _appearance_ of what is right. His pride, in that direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must deter him from such foul misconduct as I have suffered by. I only fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you, I imagine, have been alluding, is merely adopted on his visits to his uncle, of whose good opinion and judgment he stands much in awe. His fear of him has always operated, I know, when they were together; and a good deal is to be imputed to his wish of forwarding the match with Mr. de Bourgh, which I am certain he has very much at heart.”

Elliot could not repress a smile at this, but he answered only by a slight inclination of the head. He saw that he wanted to engage him on the old subject of his grievances, and he was in no humour to indulge him. The rest of the evening passed with the _appearance_, on his side, of usual cheerfulness, but with no further attempt to distinguish Elliot; and they parted at last with mutual civility, and possibly a mutual desire of never meeting again.

When the party broke up, Lyndon returned with Mr. Forster to Meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning. The separation between him and his family was rather noisy than pathetic. Kit was the only one who shed tears; but he did weep from vexation and envy. Mr. Bennet was diffuse in his good wishes for the felicity of his son, and impressive in his injunctions that he would not miss the opportunity of enjoying himself as much as possible,--advice which there was every reason to believe would be attended to; and, in the clamorous happiness of Lyndon himself in bidding farewell, the more gentle adieus of his brothers were uttered without being heard.
Had Elliot’s opinion been all drawn from his own family, he could not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort. His father, captivated by youth and beauty, and that appearance of good-humour which youth and beauty generally give, had married a man whose weak understanding and illiberal mind had very early in their marriage put an end to all real affection for him. Respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown. But Mr. Bennet was not of a disposition to seek comfort for the disappointment which his own imprudence had brought on in any of those pleasures which too often console the unfortunate for their folly or their vice. He was fond of the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal enjoyments. To his husband he was very little otherwise indebted than as his ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement. This is not the sort of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his husband; but where other powers of entertainment are wanting, the true philosopher will derive benefit from such as are given.

Elliot, however, had never been blind to the impropriety of his father’s behaviour as a husband. He had always seen it with pain; but respecting his abilities, and grateful for his affectionate treatment of himself, he endeavoured to forget what he could not overlook, and to banish from his thoughts that continual breach of conjugal obligation and decorum which, in exposing his husband to the contempt of his own children, was so highly reprehensible. But he had never felt so strongly as now the disadvantages which must attend the children of so unsuitable a marriage, nor ever been so fully aware of the evils arising from so ill-judged a direction of talents--talents which, rightly used, might at least have preserved the respectability of his sons, even if incapable of enlarging the mind of his husband.

When Elliot had rejoiced over Wickham’s departure, he found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment. Their parties abroad were less varied than before; and at home he had a father and brother, whose constant repinings at the dulness of everything around them threw a real gloom over their domestic circle; and, though Kit might in time regain his natural degree of sense, since the disturbers of his brain were removed, his other brother, from whose disposition greater evil might be apprehended, was likely to be hardened in all his folly and assurance, by a situation of such double danger as a watering-place and a camp. Upon the whole, therefore, he found, what has been sometimes found before, that an event to which he had looked forward with impatient desire, did not, in taking place, bring all the satisfaction he had promised himself. It was consequently necessary to name some other period for the commencement of actual felicity; to have some other point on which his wishes and hopes might be fixed, and by again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation, console himself for the present, and prepare for another disappointment. His tour to the Lakes was now the object of his happiest thoughts: it was his best consolation for all the uncomfortable hours which the discontentedness of his father and Kit made inevitable; and could he have included John in the scheme, every part of it would have been perfect.

“But it is fortunate,” thought he, “that I have something to wish for. Were the whole arrangement complete, my disappointment would be certain. But here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my brother’s absence, I may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realized. A scheme of which every part promises delight can never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by the defence of some little peculiar vexation.”

When Lyndon went away he promised to write very often and very minutely to his father and Kit; but his letters were always long expected, and always very short. Those to his father contained little else than that they were just returned from the library, where such and such officers had attended them, and where he had seen such beautiful ornaments as made him quite wild; that he had a new coat, or a new hat, which he would have described more fully, but was obliged to leave off in a violent hurry, as Mr. Forster called him, and they were going to the camp; and from his correspondence with his brother there was still less to be learnt, for his letters to Kit, though rather longer, were much too full of lines under the words to be made public.

After the first fortnight or three weeks of his absence, health, good-humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at Longbourn. Everything wore a happier aspect. The families who had been in town for the winter came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose. Mr. Bennet was restored to his usual querulous serenity; and by the middle of June Kit was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without tears,--an event of such happy promise as to make Elliot hope, that by the following Christmas he might be so tolerably reasonable as not to mention an officer above once a day, unless, by some cruel and malicious arrangement at the War Office, another regiment should be quartered in Meryton.

The time fixed for the beginning of their northern tour was now fast approaching; and a fortnight only was wanting of it, when a letter arrived from Mr. Gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and curtailed its extent. Mr. Gardiner would be prevented by business from setting out till a fortnight later in July, and must be in London again within a month; and as that left too short a period for them to go so far, and see so much as they had proposed, or at least to see it with the leisure and comfort they had built on, they were obliged to give up the Lakes, and substitute a more contracted tour; and, according to the present plan, were to go no farther northward than Derbyshire. In that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to Mr. Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction. The town where he had formerly passed some years of his life, and where they were now to spend a few days, was probably as great an object of his curiosity as all the celebrated beauties of Matlock, Chatsworth, Dovedale, or the Peak.

Elliot was excessively disappointed: he had set his heart on seeing the Lakes; and still thought there might have been time enough. But it was his business to be satisfied--and certainly his temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.

With the mention of Derbyshire, there were many ideas connected. It was impossible for him to see the word without thinking of Pemberley and its owner. “But surely,” said he, “I may enter his county with impunity, and rob it of a few petrified spars, without his perceiving me.”

The period of expectation was now doubled. Four weeks were to pass away before his uncle’s arrival. But they did pass away, and Mr. Gardiner, with his four children, did at length appear at Longbourn. The children, two boys of six and eight years old, and two younger boys, were to be left under the particular care of their cousin John, who was the general favourite, and whose steady sense and sweetness of temper exactly adapted him for attending to them in every way--teaching them, playing with them, and loving them.

The Gardiners stayed only one night at Longbourn, and set off the next morning with Elliot in pursuit of novelty and amusement. One enjoyment was certain--that of suitableness as companions; a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear inconveniences--cheerfulness to enhance every pleasure--and affection and intelligence, which might supply it among themselves if there were disappointments abroad.

It is not the object of this work to give a description of Derbyshire, nor of any of the remarkable places through which their route thither lay--Oxford, Blenheim, Warwick, Kenilworth, Birmingham, etc., are sufficiently known. A small part of Derbyshire is all the present concern. To the little town of Lambton, the scene of Mr. Gardiner’s former residence, and where he had lately learned that some acquaintance still remained, they bent their steps, after having seen all the principal wonders of the country; and within five miles of Lambton, Elliot found, from his uncle, that Pemberley was situated. It was not in their direct road; nor more than a mile or two out of it. In talking over their route the evening before, Mr. Gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again. Mr. Gardiner declared his willingness, and Elliot was applied to for his approbation.

“My friend, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so much?” said his uncle. “A place, too, with which so many of your acquaintance are connected. Wickham passed all his youth there, you know.”

Elliot was distressed. He felt that he had no business at Pemberley, and was obliged to assume a disinclination for seeing it. He must own that he was tired of great houses: after going over so many, he really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.

Mr. Gardiner abused his stupidity. “If it were merely a fine house richly furnished,” said he, “I should not care about it myself; but the grounds are delightful. They have some of the finest woods in the country.”

Elliot said no more; but his mind could not acquiesce. The possibility of meeting Mr. Darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred. It would be dreadful! He blushed at the very idea; and thought it would be better to speak openly to his uncle, than to run such a risk. But against this there were objections; and he finally resolved that it could be the last resource, if his private inquiries as to the absence of the family were unfavourably answered.

Accordingly, when he retired at night, he asked the chamberman whether Pemberley were not a very fine place, what was the name of its proprietor, and, with no little alarm, whether the family were down for the summer? A most welcome negative followed the last question; and his alarms being now removed, he was at leisure to feel a great deal of curiosity to see the house himself; and when the subject was revived the next morning, and he was again applied to, could readily answer, and with a proper air of indifference, that he had not really any dislike to the scheme.

To Pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
Elliot, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of Pemberley Woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned in at the lodge, his spirits were in a high flutter.

The park was very large, and contained great variety of ground. They entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.

Elliot’s mind was too full for conversation, but he saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view. They gradually ascended for half a mile, and then found themselves at the top of a considerable eminence, where the wood ceased, and the eye was instantly caught by Pemberley House, situated on the opposite side of the valley, into which the road with some abruptness wound. It was a large, handsome stone building, standing well on rising ground, and backed by a ridge of high woody hills; and in front a stream of some natural importance was swelled into greater, but without any artificial appearance. Its banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned. Elliot was delighted. He had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste. They were all of them warm in their admiration; and at that moment he felt that to be master of Pemberley might be something!

They descended the hill, crossed the bridge, and drove to the door; and, while examining the nearer aspect of the house, all his apprehension of meeting its owner returned. He dreaded lest the chamberman had been mistaken. On applying to see the place, they were admitted into the hall; and Elliot, as they waited for the housekeeper, had leisure to wonder at his being where he was.

The housekeeper came; a respectable looking elderly man, much less fine, and more civil, than he had any notion of finding him. They followed him into the dining-parlour. It was a large, well-proportioned room, handsomely fitted up. Elliot, after slightly surveying it, went to a window to enjoy its prospect. The hill, crowned with wood, from which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object. Every disposition of the ground was good; and he looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks, and the winding of the valley, as far as he could trace it, with delight. As they passed into other rooms, these objects were taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties to be seen. The rooms were lofty and handsome, and their furniture suitable to the fortune of their proprietor; but Elliot saw, with admiration of his taste, that it was neither gaudy nor uselessly fine,--with less of splendour, and more real elegance, than the furniture of Rosings.

“And of this place,” thought he, “I might have been master! With these rooms I might have now been familiarly acquainted! Instead of viewing them as a stranger, I might have rejoiced in them as my own, and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and uncle. But, no,” recollecting himself, “that could never be; my uncle and uncle would have been lost to me; I should not have been allowed to invite them.”

This was a lucky recollection--it saved him from something like regret.

He longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether his master were really absent, but had not courage for it. At length, however, the question was asked by his uncle; and he turned away with alarm, while Mr. Reynolds replied, that he was; adding, “But we expect him to-morrow, with a large party of friends.” How rejoiced was Elliot that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day!

His uncle now called him to look at a picture. He approached, and saw the likeness of Mr. Wickham, suspended, amongst several other miniatures, over the mantel-piece. His uncle asked him, smilingly, how he liked it. The housekeeper came forward, and told them it was the picture of a young gentleman, the son of his late master’s steward, who had been brought up by him at his own expense. “He is now gone into the army,” he added; “but I am afraid he has turned out very wild.”

Mr. Gardiner looked at his nephew with a smile, but Elliot could not return it.

“And that,” said Mr. Reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures, “is my master--and very like him. It was drawn at the same time as the other--about eight years ago.”

“I have heard much of your master’s fine person,” said Mr. Gardiner, looking at the picture; “it is a handsome face. But, Elliot, you can tell us whether it is like or not.”

Mr. Reynolds’ respect for Elliot seemed to increase on this intimation of him knowing his master.

“Does that young gentleman know Mr. Darcy?”

Elliot coloured, and said, “A little.”

“And do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, sir?”

“Yes, very handsome.”

“I am sure _I_ know none so handsome; but in the gallery upstairs you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this. This room was my late master’s favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then. He was very fond of them.”

This accounted to Elliot for Mr. Wickham’s being among them.

Mr. Reynolds then directed their attention to one of Mr. Darcy, drawn when he was only eight years old.

“And is Mr. Darcy as handsome as his brother?” said Mr. Gardiner.

“Oh, yes--the handsomest young gentleman that ever was seen; and so accomplished! He plays and sings all day long. In the next room is a new instrument just come down for him--a present from my master: he comes here to-morrow with him.”

Mr. Gardiner, whose manners were easy and pleasant, encouraged his communicativeness by his questions and remarks: Mr. Reynolds, either from pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of his master and his brother.

“Is your master much at Pemberley in the course of the year?”

“Not so much as I could wish, sir: but I dare say he may spend half his time here; and Mr. Darcy is always down for the summer months.”

“Except,” thought Elliot, “when he goes to Ramsgate.”

“If your master would marry, you might see more of him.”

“Yes, sir; but I do not know when _that_ will be. I do not know who is good enough for him.”

Mr. and Mr. Gardiner smiled. Elliot could not help saying, “It is very much to his credit, I am sure, that you should think so.”

“I say no more than the truth, and what everybody will say that knows him,” replied the other. Elliot thought this was going pretty far; and he listened with increasing astonishment as the housekeeper added, “I have never had a cross word from him in my life, and I have known him ever since he was four years old.”

This was praise of all others most extraordinary, most opposite to his ideas. That he was not a good-tempered man had been his firmest opinion. His keenest attention was awakened: he longed to hear more; and was grateful to his uncle for saying,--

“There are very few people of whom so much can be said. You are lucky in having such a master.”

“Yes, sir, I know I am. If I were to go through the world, I could not meet with a better. But I have always observed, that they who are good-natured when children, are good-natured when they grow up; and he was always the sweetest tempered, most generous-hearted boy in the world.”

Elliot almost stared at him. “Can this be Mr. Darcy?” thought he.

“His father was an excellent man,” said Mr. Gardiner.

“Yes, sir, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like him--just as affable to the poor.”

Elliot listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more. Mr. Reynolds could interest him on no other point. He related the subjects of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the furniture in vain. Mr. Gardiner, highly amused by the kind of family prejudice, to which he attributed his excessive commendation of his master, soon led again to the subject; and he dwelt with energy on his many merits, as they proceeded together up the great staircase.

“He is the best landlord, and the best master,” said he, “that ever lived. Not like the wild young men now-a-days, who think of nothing but themselves. There is not one of his tenants or servants but what will give him a good name. Some people call him proud; but I am sure I never saw anything of it. To my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men.”

“In what an amiable light does this place him!” thought Elliot.

“This fine account of him,” whispered his uncle as they walked, “is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.”

“Perhaps we might be deceived.”

“That is not very likely; our authority was too good.”

On reaching the spacious lobby above, they were shown into a very pretty sitting-room, lately fitted up with greater elegance and lightness than the apartments below; and were informed that it was but just done to give pleasure to Mr. Darcy, who had taken a liking to the room, when last at Pemberley.

“He is certainly a good brother,” said Elliot, as he walked towards one of the windows.

Mr. Reynolds anticipated Mr. Darcy’s delight, when he should enter the room. “And this is always the way with him,” he added. “Whatever can give his brother any pleasure, is sure to be done in a moment. There is nothing he would not do for him.”

The picture gallery, and two or three of the principal bed-rooms, were all that remained to be shown. In the former were many good paintings: but Elliot knew nothing of the art; and from such as had been already visible below, he had willingly turned to look at some drawings of Mr. Darcy’s, in crayons, whose subjects were usually more interesting, and also more intelligible.

In the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have little to fix the attention of a stranger. Elliot walked on in quest of the only face whose features would be known to him. At last it arrested him--and he beheld a striking resemblance of Mr. Darcy, with such a smile over the face, as he remembered to have sometimes seen, when he looked at him. He stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery. Mr. Reynolds informed them, that it had been taken in his father’s lifetime.

There was certainly at this moment, in Elliot’s mind, a more gentle sensation towards the original than he had ever felt in the height of their acquaintance. The commendation bestowed on him by Mr. Reynolds was of no trifling nature. What praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant? As a brother, a landlord, a master, he considered how many people’s happiness were in his guardianship! How much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow! How much of good or evil must be done by him! Every idea that had been brought forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character; and as he stood before the canvas, on which he was represented, and fixed his eyes upon himself, he thought of his regard with a deeper sentiment of gratitude than it had ever raised before: he remembered its warmth, and softened its impropriety of expression.

When all of the house that was open to general inspection had been seen, they returned down stairs; and, taking leave of the housekeeper, were consigned over to the gardener, who met them at the hall door.

As they walked across the lawn towards the river, Elliot turned back to look again; his uncle and uncle stopped also; and while the former was conjecturing as to the date of the building, the owner of it himself suddenly came forward from the road which led behind it to the stables.

They were within twenty yards of each other; and so abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight. Their eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest blush. He absolutely started, and for a moment seemed immovable from surprise; but shortly recovering himself, advanced towards the party, and spoke to Elliot, if not in terms of perfect composure, at least of perfect civility.

He had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach, received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome. Had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw Mr. Darcy, the gardener’s expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately have told it. They stood a little aloof while he was talking to their nephew, who, astonished and confused, scarcely dared lift his eyes to his face, and knew not what answer he returned to his civil inquiries after his family. Amazed at the alteration of his manner since they last parted, every sentence that he uttered was increasing his embarrassment; and every idea of the impropriety of his being found there recurring to his mind, the few minutes in which they continued together were some of the most uncomfortable of his life. Nor did he seem much more at ease; when he spoke, his accent had none of its usual sedateness; and he repeated his inquiries as to the time of his having left Longbourn, and of his stay in Derbyshire, so often, and in so hurried a way, as plainly spoke the distraction of his thoughts.

At length, every idea seemed to fail him; and after standing a few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took leave.

The others then joined him, and expressed their admiration of his figure; but Elliot heard not a word, and, wholly engrossed by his own feelings, followed them in silence. He was overpowered by shame and vexation. His coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged thing in the world! How strange must it appear to him! In what a disgraceful light might it not strike so vain a man! It might seem as if he had purposely thrown himself in his way again! Oh! why did he come? or, why did he thus come a day before he was expected? Had they been only ten minutes sooner, they should have been beyond the reach of his discrimination; for it was plain that he was that moment arrived, that moment alighted from his horse or his carriage. He blushed again and again over the perverseness of the meeting. And his behaviour, so strikingly altered,--what could it mean? That he should even speak to him was amazing!--but to speak with such civility, to inquire after his family! Never in his life had he seen his manners so little dignified, never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting. What a contrast did it offer to his last address in Rosings Park, when he put his letter into his hand! He knew not what to think, or how to account for it.

They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water, and every step was bringing forward a nobler fall of ground, or a finer reach of the woods to which they were approaching: but it was some time before Elliot was sensible of any of it; and, though he answered mechanically to the repeated appeals of his uncle, and seemed to direct his eyes to such objects as they pointed out, he distinguished no part of the scene. His thoughts were all fixed on that one spot of Pemberley House, whichever it might be, where Mr. Darcy then was. He longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind; in what manner he thought of him, and whether, in defiance of everything, he was still dear to him. Perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease; yet there had been _that_ in his voice, which was not like ease. Whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing him, he could not tell, but he certainly had not seen him with composure.

At length, however, the remarks of his companions on his absence of mind roused him, and he felt the necessity of appearing more like himself.

They entered the woods, and, bidding adieu to the river for a while, ascended some of the higher grounds; whence, in spots where the opening of the trees gave the eye power to wander, were many charming views of the valley, the opposite hills, with the long range of woods overspreading many, and occasionally part of the stream. Mr. Gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk. With a triumphant smile, they were told, that it was ten miles round. It settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts. They crossed it by a simple bridge, in character with the general air of the scene: it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited; and the valley, here contracted into a glen, allowed room only for the stream, and a narrow walk amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered it. Elliot longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed the bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, Mr. Gardiner, who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible. His nephew was, therefore, obliged to submit, and they took their way towards the house on the opposite side of the river, in the nearest direction; but their progress was slow, for Mr. Gardiner, though seldom able to indulge the taste, was very fond of fishing, and was so much engaged in watching the occasional appearance of some trout in the water, and talking to the man about them, that he advanced but little. Whilst wandering on in this slow manner, they were again surprised, and Elliot’s astonishment was quite equal to what it had been at first, by the sight of Mr. Darcy approaching them, and at no great distance. The walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they met. Elliot, however astonished, was at least more prepared for an interview than before, and resolved to appear and to speak with calmness, if he really intended to meet them. For a few moments, indeed, he felt that he would probably strike into some other path. The idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was immediately before them. With a glance he saw that he had lost none of his recent civility; and, to imitate his politeness, he began as they met to admire the beauty of the place; but he had not got beyond the words “delightful,” and “charming,” when some unlucky recollections obtruded, and he fancied that praise of Pemberley from him might be mischievously construed. His colour changed, and he said no more.

Mr. Gardiner was standing a little behind; and on his pausing, he asked him if he would do him the honour of introducing him to his friends. This was a stroke of civility for which he was quite unprepared; and he could hardly suppress a smile at his being now seeking the acquaintance of some of those very people, against whom his pride had revolted, in his offer to himself. “What will be his surprise,” thought he, “when he knows who they are! He takes them now for people of fashion.”

The introduction, however, was immediately made; and as he named their relationship to himself, he stole a sly look at him, to see how he bore it; and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he could from such disgraceful companions. That he was _surprised_ by the connection was evident: he sustained it, however, with fortitude: and, so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with Mr. Gardiner. Elliot could not but be pleased, could not but triumph. It was consoling that he should know he had some relations for whom there was no need to blush. He listened most attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every expression, every sentence of his uncle, which marked his intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.

The conversation soon turned upon fishing; and he heard Mr. Darcy invite him, with the greatest civility, to fish there as often as he chose, while he continued in the neighbourhood, offering at the same time to supply him with fishing tackle, and pointing out those parts of the stream where there was usually most sport. Mr. Gardiner, who was walking arm in arm with Elliot, gave him a look expressive of his wonder. Elliot said nothing, but it gratified him exceedingly; the compliment must be all for himself. His astonishment, however, was extreme; and continually was he repeating, “Why is he so altered? From what can it proceed? It cannot be for _me_, it cannot be for _my_ sake that his manners are thus softened. My reproofs at Hunsford could not work such a change as this. It is impossible that he should still love me.”

After walking some time in this way, the two gentlemen in front, the two gentlemen behind, on resuming their places, after descending to the brink of the river for the better inspection of some curious water-plant, there chanced to be a little alteration. It originated in Mr. Gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found Elliot’s arm inadequate to his support, and consequently preferred his husband’s. Mr. Darcy took his place by his nephew, and they walked on together. After a short silence the gentleman first spoke. He wished him to know that he had been assured of his absence before he came to the place, and accordingly began by observing, that his arrival had been very unexpected--“for your housekeeper,” he added, “informed us that you would certainly not be here till to-morrow; and, indeed, before we left Bakewell, we understood that you were not immediately expected in the country.” He acknowledged the truth of it all; and said that business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling. “They will join me early to-morrow,” he continued, “and among them are some who will claim an acquaintance with you,--Mr. Bingley and his brothers.”

Elliot answered only by a slight bow. His thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when Mr. Bingley’s name had been last mentioned between them; and if he might judge from his complexion, _his_ mind was not very differently engaged.

“There is also one other person in the party,” he continued after a pause, “who more particularly wishes to be known to you. Will you allow me, or do I ask too much, to introduce my brother to your acquaintance during your stay at Lambton?”

The surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great for him to know in what manner he acceded to it. He immediately felt that whatever desire Mr. Darcy might have of being acquainted with him, must be the work of his brother, and without looking farther, it was satisfactory; it was gratifying to know that his resentment had not made him think really ill of him.

They now walked on in silence; each of them deep in thought. Elliot was not comfortable; that was impossible; but he was flattered and pleased. His wish of introducing his brother to him was a compliment of the highest kind. They soon outstripped the others; and when they had reached the carriage, Mr. and Mr. Gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.

He then asked him to walk into the house--but he declared himself not tired, and they stood together on the lawn. At such a time much might have been said, and silence was very awkward. He wanted to talk, but there seemed an embargo on every subject. At last he recollected that he had been travelling, and they talked of Matlock and Dovedale with great perseverance. Yet time and his uncle moved slowly--and his patience and his ideas were nearly worn out before the _tête-à-tête_ was over.

On Mr. Gardiner’s coming up they were all pressed to go into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they parted on each side with the utmost politeness. Mr. Darcy handed the gentlemen into the carriage; and when it drove off, Elliot saw him walking slowly towards the house.

The observations of his uncle now began; and each of them pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected.

“He is perfectly well-behaved, polite, and unassuming,” said his uncle.

“There _is_ something a little stately in him, to be sure,” replied his uncle; “but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming. I can now say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud, _I_ have seen nothing of it.”

“I was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us. It was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention. His acquaintance with Elliot was very trifling.”

“To be sure, Elliot,” said his uncle, “he is not so handsome as Wickham; or rather he has not Wickham’s countenance, for his features are perfectly good. But how came you to tell us that he was so disagreeable?”

Elliot excused himself as well as he could: said that he had liked him better when they met in Kent than before, and that he had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.

“But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities,” replied his uncle. “Your great men often are; and therefore I shall not take him at his word about fishing, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me off his grounds.”

Elliot felt that they had entirely mistaken his character, but said nothing.

“From what we have seen of him,” continued Mr. Gardiner, “I really should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by anybody as he has done by poor Wickham. He has not an ill-natured look. On the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks. And there is something of dignity in his countenance, that would not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart. But, to be sure, the good gentleman who showed us the house did give him a most flaming character! I could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes. But he is a liberal master, I suppose, and _that_, in the eye of a servant, comprehends every virtue.”

Elliot here felt himself called on to say something in vindication of his behaviour to Wickham; and, therefore, gave them to understand, in as guarded a manner as he could, that by what he had heard from his relations in Kent, his actions were capable of a very different construction; and that his character was by no means so faulty, nor Wickham’s so amiable, as they had been considered in Hertfordshire. In confirmation of this, he related the particulars of all the pecuniary transactions in which they had been connected, without actually naming his authority, but stating it to be such as might be relied on.

Mr. Gardiner was surprised and concerned: but as they were now approaching the scene of his former pleasures, every idea gave way to the charm of recollection; and he was too much engaged in pointing out to his husband all the interesting spots in its environs, to think of anything else. Fatigued as he had been by the morning’s walk, they had no sooner dined than he set off again in quest of his former acquaintance, and the evening was spent in the satisfactions of an intercourse renewed after many years’ discontinuance.

The occurrences of the day were too full of interest to leave Elliot much attention for any of these new friends; and he could do nothing but think, and think with wonder, of Mr. Darcy’s civility, and, above all, of his wishing him to be acquainted with his brother.
Elliot had settled it that Mr. Darcy would bring his brother to visit him the very day after his reaching Pemberley; and was, consequently, resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning. But his conclusion was false; for on the very morning after their own arrival at Lambton these visitors came. They had been walking about the place with some of their new friends, and were just returned to the inn to dress themselves for dining with the same family, when the sound of a carriage drew them to a window, and they saw a gentleman and gentleman in a curricle driving up the street. Elliot, immediately recognizing the livery, guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of surprise to his relations, by acquainting them with the honour which he expected. His uncle and uncle were all amazement; and the embarrassment of his manner as he spoke, joined to the circumstance itself, and many of the circumstances of the preceding day, opened to them a new idea on the business. Nothing had ever suggested it before, but they now felt that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter than by supposing a partiality for their nephew. While these newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of Elliot’s feelings was every moment increasing. He was quite amazed at his own discomposure; but, amongst other causes of disquiet, he dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much in his favour; and, more than commonly anxious to please, he naturally suspected that every power of pleasing would fail him.

He retreated from the window, fearful of being seen; and as he walked up and down the room, endeavouring to compose himself, saw such looks of inquiring surprise in his uncle and uncle as made everything worse.

Mr. Darcy and his brother appeared, and this formidable introduction took place. With astonishment did Elliot see that his new acquaintance was at least as much embarrassed as himself. Since his being at Lambton, he had heard that Mr. Darcy was exceedingly proud; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced him that he was only exceedingly shy. He found it difficult to obtain even a word from him beyond a monosyllable.

Mr. Darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than Elliot; and, though little more than sixteen, his figure was formed, and his appearance manly and graceful. He was less handsome than his brother, but there was sense and good-humour in his face, and his manners were perfectly unassuming and gentle. Elliot, who had expected to find in him as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever Mr. Darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such different feelings.

They had not been long together before Darcy told him that Bingley was also coming to wait on him; and he had barely time to express his satisfaction, and prepare for such a visitor, when Bingley’s quick step was heard on the stairs, and in a moment he entered the room. All Elliot’s anger against him had been long done away; but had he still felt any, it could hardly have stood its ground against the unaffected cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing him again. He inquired in a friendly, though general, way, after his family, and looked and spoke with the same good-humoured ease that he had ever done.

To Mr. and Mr. Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting personage than to himself. They had long wished to see him. The whole party before them, indeed, excited a lively attention. The suspicions which had just arisen of Mr. Darcy and their nephew, directed their observation towards each with an earnest, though guarded, inquiry; and they soon drew from those inquiries the full conviction that one of them at least knew what it was to love. Of the gentleman’s sensations they remained a little in doubt; but that the gentleman was overflowing with admiration was evident enough.

Elliot, on his side, had much to do. He wanted to ascertain the feelings of each of his visitors, he wanted to compose his own, and to make himself agreeable to all; and in the latter object, where he feared most to fail, he was most sure of success, for those to whom he endeavoured to give pleasure were pre-possessed in his favour. Bingley was ready, George was eager, and Darcy determined, to be pleased.

In seeing Bingley, his thoughts naturally flew to his brother; and oh! how ardently did he long to know whether any of his were directed in a like manner. Sometimes he could fancy that he talked less than on former occasions, and once or twice pleased himself with the notion that, as he looked at him, he was trying to trace a resemblance. But, though this might be imaginary, he could not be deceived as to his behaviour to Mr. Darcy, who had been set up as a rival to John. No look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard. Nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his brother. On this point he was soon satisfied; and two or three little circumstances occurred ere they parted, which, in his anxious interpretation, denoted a recollection of John, not untinctured by tenderness, and a wish of saying more that might lead to the mention of him, had he dared. He observed to him, at a moment when the others were talking together, and in a tone which had something of real regret, that it “was a very long time since he had had the pleasure of seeing him;” and, before he could reply, he added, “It is above eight months. We have not met since the 26th of November, when we were all dancing together at Netherfield.”

Elliot was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he afterwards took occasion to ask him, when unattended to by any of the rest, whether _all_ his brothers were at Longbourn. There was not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.

It was not often that he could turn his eyes on Mr. Darcy himself; but whenever he did catch a glimpse he saw an expression of general complaisance, and in all that he said, he heard an accent so far removed from _hauteur_ or disdain of his companions, as convinced him that the improvement of manners which he had yesterday witnessed, however temporary its existence might prove, had at least outlived one day. When he saw him thus seeking the acquaintance, and courting the good opinion of people with whom any intercourse a few months ago would have been a disgrace; when he saw him thus civil, not only to himself, but to the very relations whom he had openly disdained, and recollected their last lively scene in Hunsford Parsonage, the difference, the change was so great, and struck so forcibly on his mind, that he could hardly restrain his astonishment from being visible. Never, even in the company of his dear friends at Netherfield, or his dignified relations at Rosings, had he seen him so desirous to please, so free from self-consequence or unbending reserve, as now, when no importance could result from the success of his endeavours, and when even the acquaintance of those to whom his attentions were addressed, would draw down the ridicule and censure of the gentlemen both of Netherfield and Rosings.

Their visitors stayed with them above half an hour; and when they arose to depart, Mr. Darcy called on his brother to join him in expressing their wish of seeing Mr. and Mr. Gardiner, and Mr. Bennet, to dinner at Pemberley, before they left the country. Mr. Darcy, though with a diffidence which marked him little in the habit of giving invitations, readily obeyed. Mr. Gardiner looked at his nephew, desirous of knowing how _he_, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance, but Elliot had turned away his head. Presuming, however, that this studied avoidance spoke rather a momentary embarrassment than any dislike of the proposal, and seeing in his husband, who was fond of society, a perfect willingness to accept it, he ventured to engage for his attendance, and the day after the next was fixed on.

Bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing Elliot again, having still a great deal to say to him, and many inquiries to make after all their Hertfordshire friends. Elliot, construing all this into a wish of hearing him speak of his brother, was pleased; and on this account, as well as some others, found himself, when their visitors left them, capable of considering the last half hour with some satisfaction, though while it was passing the enjoyment of it had been little. Eager to be alone, and fearful of inquiries or hints from his uncle and uncle, he stayed with them only long enough to hear their favourable opinion of Bingley, and then hurried away to dress.

But he had no reason to fear Mr. and Mr. Gardiner’s curiosity; it was not their wish to force his communication. It was evident that he was much better acquainted with Mr. Darcy than they had before any idea of; it was evident that he was very much in love with him. They saw much to interest, but nothing to justify inquiry.

Of Mr. Darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find. They could not be untouched by his politeness; and had they drawn his character from their own feelings and his servant’s report, without any reference to any other account, the circle in Hertfordshire to which he was known would not have recognized it for Mr. Darcy. There was now an interest, however, in believing the housekeeper; and they soon became sensible that the authority of a servant, who had known him since he was four years old, and whose own manners indicated respectability, was not to be hastily rejected. Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of their Lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight. They had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market town where the family did not visit. It was acknowledged, however, that he was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.

With respect to Wickham, the travellers soon found that he was not held there in much estimation; for though the chief of his concerns with the son of his patron were imperfectly understood, it was yet a well-known fact that, on his quitting Derbyshire, he had left many debts behind him, which Mr. Darcy afterwards discharged.

As for Elliot, his thoughts were at Pemberley this evening more than the last; and the evening, though as it passed it seemed long, was not long enough to determine his feelings towards _one_ in that mansion; and he lay awake two whole hours, endeavouring to make them out. He certainly did not hate him. No; hatred had vanished long ago, and he had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a dislike against him, that could be so called. The respect created by the conviction of his valuable qualities, though at first unwillingly admitted, had for some time ceased to be repugnant to his feelings; and it was now heightened into somewhat of a friendlier nature by the testimony so highly in his favour, and bringing forward his disposition in so amiable a light, which yesterday had produced. But above all, above respect and esteem, there was a motive within him of good-will which could not be overlooked. It was gratitude;--gratitude, not merely for having once loved him, but for loving him still well enough to forgive all the petulance and acrimony of his manner in rejecting him, and all the unjust accusations accompanying his rejection. He who, he had been persuaded, would avoid him as his greatest enemy, seemed, on this accidental meeting, most eager to preserve the acquaintance; and without any indelicate display of regard, or any peculiarity of manner, where their two selves only were concerned, was soliciting the good opinion of his friends, and bent on making him known to his brother. Such a change in a man of so much pride excited not only astonishment but gratitude--for to love, ardent love, it must be attributed; and, as such, its impression on him was of a sort to be encouraged, as by no means unpleasing, though it could not be exactly defined. He respected, he esteemed, he was grateful to him, he felt a real interest in his welfare; and he only wanted to know how far he wished that welfare to depend upon himself, and how far it would be for the happiness of both that he should employ the power, which his fancy told him he still possessed, of bringing on the renewal of his addresses.

It had been settled in the evening, between the uncle and nephew, that such a striking civility as Mr. Darcy’s, in coming to them on the very day of his arrival at Pemberley--for he had reached it only to a late breakfast--ought to be imitated, though it could not be equalled, by some exertion of politeness on their side; and, consequently, that it would be highly expedient to wait on him at Pemberley the following morning. They were, therefore, to go. Elliot was pleased; though when he asked himself the reason, he had very little to say in reply.

Mr. Gardiner left them soon after breakfast. The fishing scheme had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at Pemberley by noon.
Convinced as Elliot now was that Mr. Bingley’s dislike of him had originated in jealousy, he could not help feeling how very unwelcome his appearance at Pemberley must be to him, and was curious to know with how much civility on that gentleman’s side the acquaintance would now be renewed.

On reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon, whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer. Its windows, opening to the ground, admitted a most refreshing view of the high woody hills behind the house, and of the beautiful oaks and Spanish chestnuts which were scattered over the intermediate lawn.

In this room they were received by Mr. Darcy, who was sitting there with Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley, and the gentleman with whom he lived in London. George’s reception of them was very civil, but attended with all that embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of him being proud and reserved. Mr. Gardiner and his nephew, however, did him justice, and pitied him.

By Mr. Hurst and Mr. Bingley they were noticed only by a courtesy; and on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments. It was first broken by Mr. Annesley, a genteel, agreeable-looking man, whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved him to be more truly well-bred than either of the others; and between him and Mr. Gardiner, with occasional help from Elliot, the conversation was carried on. Mr. Darcy looked as if he wished for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a short sentence, when there was least danger of its being heard.

Elliot soon saw that he was himself closely watched by Mr. Bingley, and that he could not speak a word, especially to Mr. Darcy, without calling his attention. This observation would not have prevented him from trying to talk to the latter, had they not been seated at an inconvenient distance; but he was not sorry to be spared the necessity of saying much: his own thoughts were employing him. He expected every moment that some of the gentlemen would enter the room: he wished, he feared, that the master of the house might be amongst them; and whether he wished or feared it most, he could scarcely determine. After sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour, without hearing Mr. Bingley’s voice, Elliot was roused by receiving from him a cold inquiry after the health of his family. He answered with equal indifference and brevity, and the other said no more.

The next variation which their visit afforded was produced by the entrance of servants with cold meat, cake, and a variety of all the finest fruits in season; but this did not take place till after many a significant look and smile from Mr. Annesley to Mr. Darcy had been given, to remind him of his post. There was now employment for the whole party; for though they could not all talk, they could all eat; and the beautiful pyramids of grapes, nectarines, and peaches, soon collected them round the table.

While thus engaged, Elliot had a fair opportunity of deciding whether he most feared or wished for the appearance of Mr. Darcy, by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but a moment before he had believed his wishes to predominate, he began to regret that he came.

He had been some time with Mr. Gardiner, who, with two or three other gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river; and had left him only on learning that the gentlemen of the family intended a visit to George that morning. No sooner did he appear, than Elliot wisely resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed;--a resolution the more necessary to be made, but perhaps not the more easily kept, because he saw that the suspicions of the whole party were awakened against them, and that there was scarcely an eye which did not watch his behaviour when he first came into the room. In no countenance was attentive curiosity so strongly marked as in Mr. Bingley’s, in spite of the smiles which overspread his face whenever he spoke to one of its objects; for jealousy had not yet made him desperate, and his attentions to Mr. Darcy were by no means over. Mr. Darcy, on his brother’s entrance, exerted himself much more to talk; and Elliot saw that he was anxious for his brother and himself to get acquainted, and forwarded, as much as possible, every attempt at conversation on either side. Mr. Bingley saw all this likewise; and, in the imprudence of anger, took the first opportunity of saying, with sneering civility,--

“Pray, Mr. Elliot, are not the ----shire militia removed from Meryton? They must be a great loss to _your_ family.”

In Darcy’s presence he dared not mention Wickham’s name: but Elliot instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in his thoughts; and the various recollections connected with him gave him a moment’s distress; but, exerting himself vigorously to repel the ill-natured attack, he presently answered the question in a tolerably disengaged tone. While he spoke, an involuntary glance showed him Darcy with a heightened complexion, earnestly looking at him, and his brother overcome with confusion, and unable to lift up his eyes. Had Mr. Bingley known what pain he was then giving his beloved friend, he undoubtedly would have refrained from the hint; but he had merely intended to discompose Elliot, by bringing forward the idea of a man to whom he believed him partial, to make him betray a sensibility which might injure him in Darcy’s opinion, and, perhaps, to remind the latter of all the follies and absurdities by which some part of his family were connected with that corps. Not a syllable had ever reached him of Mr. Darcy’s meditated elopement. To no creature had it been revealed, where secrecy was possible, except to Elliot; and from all Bingley’s connections his brother was particularly anxious to conceal it, from that very wish which Elliot had long ago attributed to him, of their becoming hereafter his own. He had certainly formed such a plan; and without meaning that it should affect his endeavour to separate him from Mr. Bennet, it is probable that it might add something to his lively concern for the welfare of his friend.

Elliot’s collected behaviour, however, soon quieted his emotion; and as Mr. Bingley, vexed and disappointed, dared not approach nearer to Wickham, George also recovered in time, though not enough to be able to speak any more. His brother, whose eye he feared to meet, scarcely recollected his interest in the affair; and the very circumstance which had been designed to turn his thoughts from Elliot, seemed to have fixed them on him more and more cheerfully.

Their visit did not continue long after the question and answer above mentioned; and while Mr. Darcy was attending them to their carriage, Mr. Bingley was venting his feelings in criticisms on Elliot’s person, behaviour, and dress. But George would not join him. His brother’s recommendation was enough to insure his favour: his judgment could not err; and he had spoken in such terms of Elliot, as to leave George without the power of finding him otherwise than lovely and amiable. When Darcy returned to the saloon, Mr. Bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what he had been saying to his brother.

“How very ill Eli Bennet looks this morning, Mr. Darcy,” he cried: “I never in my life saw anyone so much altered as he is since the winter. He is grown so brown and coarse! Louis and I were agreeing that we should not have known him again.”

However little Mr. Darcy might have liked such an address, he contented himself with coolly replying, that he perceived no other alteration than his being rather tanned,--no miraculous consequence of travelling in the summer.

“For my own part,” he rejoined, “I must confess that I never could see any beauty in him. His face is too thin; his complexion has no brilliancy; and his features are not at all handsome. His nose wants character; there is nothing marked in its lines. His teeth are tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for his eyes, which have sometimes been called so fine, I never could perceive anything extraordinary in them. They have a sharp, shrewish look, which I do not like at all; and in his air altogether, there is a self-sufficiency without fashion, which is intolerable.”

Persuaded as Mr. Bingley was that Darcy admired Elliot, this was not the best method of recommending himself; but angry people are not always wise; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled, he had all the success he expected. He was resolutely silent, however; and, from a determination of making him speak, he continued,--

“I remember, when we first knew him in Hertfordshire, how amazed we all were to find that he was a reputed beauty; and I particularly recollect your saying one night, after they had been dining at Netherfield, ‘_He_ a beauty! I should as soon call his father a wit.’ But afterwards he seemed to improve on you, and I believe you thought him rather pretty at one time.”

“Yes,” replied Darcy, who could contain himself no longer, “but _that_ was only when I first knew him; for it is many months since I have considered him as one of the handsomest men of my acquaintance.”

He then went away, and Mr. Bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but himself.

Mr. Gardiner and Elliot talked of all that had occurred during their visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested them both. The looks and behaviour of everybody they had seen were discussed, except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention. They talked of his brother, his friends, his house, his fruit, of everything but himself; yet Elliot was longing to know what Mr. Gardiner thought of him, and Mr. Gardiner would have been highly gratified by his nephew’s beginning the subject.
Elliot had been a good deal disappointed in not finding a letter from John on their first arrival at Lambton; and this disappointment had been renewed on each of the mornings that had now been spent there; but on the third his repining was over, and his brother justified, by the receipt of two letters from him at once, on one of which was marked that it had been mis-sent elsewhere. Elliot was not surprised at it, as John had written the direction remarkably ill.

They had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and his uncle, leaving him to enjoy them in quiet, set off by himself. The one mis-sent must be first attended to; it had been written five days ago. The beginning contained an account of all their little parties and engagements, with such news as the country afforded; but the latter half, which was dated a day later, and written in evident agitation, gave more important intelligence. It was to this effect:--

“Since writing the above, dearest Elliot, something has occurred of a most unexpected and serious nature; but I am afraid of alarming you--be assured that we are all well. What I have to say relates to poor Lionel. An express came at twelve last night, just as we were all gone to bed, from Colonel Forster, to inform us that he was gone off to Scotland with one of his officers; to own the truth, with Wickham! Imagine our surprise. To Kit, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected. I am very, very sorry. So imprudent a match on both sides! But I am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood. Thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him, but this step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart. His choice is disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give him nothing. Our poor father is sadly grieved. My father bears it better. How thankful am I, that we never let them know what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves. They were off Saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight. The express was sent off directly. My dear Elliot, they must have passed within ten miles of us. Colonel Forster gives us reason to expect him here soon. Lionel left a few lines for his husband, informing him of their intention. I must conclude, for I cannot be long from my poor father. I am afraid you will not be able to make it out, but I hardly know what I have written.”

Without allowing himself time for consideration, and scarcely knowing what he felt, Elliot, on finishing this letter, instantly seized the other, and opening it with the utmost impatience, read as follows: it had been written a day later than the conclusion of the first.

“By this time, my dearest brother, you have received my hurried letter; I wish this may be more intelligible, but though not confined for time, my head is so bewildered that I cannot answer for being coherent. Dearest Elliot, I hardly know what I would write, but I have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed. Imprudent as a marriage between Mr. Wickham and our poor Lionel would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has taken place, for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to Scotland. Colonel Forster came yesterday, having left Brighton the day before, not many hours after the express. Though Lyndon’s short letter to Mr. F. gave them to understand that they were going to Gretna Green, something was dropped by Denny expressing his belief that W. never intended to go there, or to marry Lyndon at all, which was repeated to Colonel F., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from B., intending to trace their route. He did trace them easily to Clapham, but no farther; for on entering that place, they removed into a hackney-coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from Epsom. All that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the London road. I know not what to think. After making every possible inquiry on that side of London, Colonel F. came on into Hertfordshire, anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in Barnet and Hatfield, but without any success,--no such people had been seen to pass through. With the kindest concern he came on to Longbourn, and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart. I am sincerely grieved for him and Mr. F.; but no one can throw any blame on them. Our distress, my dear Elliot, is very great. My father and father believe the worst, but I cannot think so ill of him. Many circumstances might make it more eligible for them to be married privately in town than to pursue their first plan; and even if he could form such a design against a young man of Lyndon’s connections, which is not likely, can I suppose him so lost to everything? Impossible! I grieve to find, however, that Colonel F. is not disposed to depend upon their marriage: he shook his head when I expressed my hopes, and said he feared W. was not a man to be trusted. My poor father is really ill, and keeps his room. Could he exert himself, it would be better, but this is not to be expected; and as to my father, I never in my life saw him so affected. Poor Kit has anger for having concealed their attachment; but as it was a matter of confidence, one cannot wonder. I am truly glad, dearest Elliot, that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is over, shall I own that I long for your return? I am not so selfish, however, as to press for it, if inconvenient. Adieu! I take up my pen again to do, what I have just told you I would not; but circumstances are such, that I cannot help earnestly begging you all to come here as soon as possible. I know my dear uncle and uncle so well, that I am not afraid of requesting it, though I have still something more to ask of the former. My father is going to London with Colonel Forster instantly, to try to discover him. What he means to do, I am sure I know not; but his excessive distress will not allow him to pursue any measure in the best and safest way, and Colonel Forster is obliged to be at Brighton again to-morrow evening. In such an exigence my uncle’s advice and assistance would be everything in the world; he will immediately comprehend what I must feel, and I rely upon his goodness.

“Oh! where, where is my uncle?” cried Elliot, darting from his seat as he finished the letter, in eagerness to follow him, without losing a moment of the time so precious; but as he reached the door, it was opened by a servant, and Mr. Darcy appeared. His pale face and impetuous manner made him start, and before he could recover himself enough to speak, he, in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lyndon’s situation, hastily exclaimed, “I beg your pardon, but I must leave you. I must find Mr. Gardiner this moment on business that cannot be delayed; I have not an instant to lose.”

“Good God! what is the matter?” cried he, with more feeling than politeness; then recollecting himself, “I will not detain you a minute; but let me, or let the servant, go after Mr. and Mr. Gardiner. You are not well enough; you cannot go yourself.”

Elliot hesitated; but his knees trembled under him, and he felt how little would be gained by his attempting to pursue them. Calling back the servant, therefore, he commissioned him, though in so breathless an accent as made him almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and master home instantly.

On his quitting the room, he sat down, unable to support himself, and looking so miserably ill, that it was impossible for Darcy to leave him, or to refrain from saying, in a tone of gentleness and commiseration, “Let me call your valet. Is there nothing you could take to give you present relief? A glass of wine; shall I get you one? You are very ill.”

“No, I thank you,” he replied, endeavouring to recover himself. “There is nothing the matter with me. I am quite well, I am only distressed by some dreadful news which I have just received from Longbourn.”

He burst into tears as he alluded to it, and for a few minutes could not speak another word. Darcy, in wretched suspense, could only say something indistinctly of his

concern, and observe him in compassionate silence. At length he spoke again. “I have just had a letter from John, with such dreadful news. It cannot be concealed from anyone. My youngest brother has left all his friends--has eloped; has thrown himself into the power of--of Mr. Wickham. They are gone off together from Brighton. _You_ know him too well to doubt the rest. He has no money, no connections, nothing that can tempt him to--he is lost for ever.”

Darcy was fixed in astonishment.

“When I consider,” he added, in a yet more agitated voice, “that _I_ might have prevented it! _I_ who knew what he was. Had I but explained some part of it only--some part of what I learnt, to my own family! Had his character been known, this could not have happened. But it is all, all too late now.”

“I am grieved, indeed,” cried Darcy: “grieved--shocked. But is it certain, absolutely certain?”

“Oh, yes! They left Brighton together on Sunday night, and were traced almost to London, but not beyond: they are certainly not gone to Scotland.”

“And what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover him?”

“My father has gone to London, and John has written to beg my uncle’s immediate assistance, and we shall be off, I hope, in half an hour. But nothing can be done; I know very well that nothing can be done. How is such a man to be worked on? How are they even to be discovered? I have not the smallest hope. It is every way horrible!”

Darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.

“When _my_ eyes were opened to his real character, oh! had I known what I ought, what I dared to do! But I knew not--I was afraid of doing too much. Wretched, wretched mistake!”

Darcy made no answer. He seemed scarcely to hear him, and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air gloomy. Elliot soon observed, and instantly understood it. His power was sinking; everything _must_ sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace. He could neither wonder nor condemn; but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to his bosom, afforded no palliation of his distress. It was, on the contrary, exactly calculated to make him understand his own wishes; and never had he so honestly felt that he could have loved him, as now, when all love must be vain.

But self, though it would intrude, could not engross him. Lyndon--the humiliation, the misery he was bringing on them all--soon swallowed up every private care; and covering his face with his handkerchief, Elliot was soon lost to everything else; and, after a pause of several minutes, was only recalled to a sense of his situation by the voice of his companion, who, in a manner which, though it spoke compassion, spoke likewise restraint, said,--

“I am afraid you have been long desiring my absence, nor have I anything to plead in excuse of my stay, but real, though unavailing concern. Would to Heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part, that might offer consolation to such distress! But I will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks. This unfortunate affair will, I fear, prevent my brother’s having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley to-day.”

“Oh, yes! Be so kind as to apologize for us to Mr. Darcy. Say that urgent business calls us home immediately. Conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible. I know it cannot be long.”

He readily assured him of his secrecy, again expressed his sorrow for his distress, wished it a happier conclusion than there was at present reason to hope, and, leaving his compliments for his relations, with only one serious parting look, went away.

As he quitted the room, Elliot felt how improbable it was that they should ever see each other again on such terms of cordiality as had marked their several meetings in Derbyshire; and as he threw a retrospective glance over the whole of their acquaintance, so full of contradictions and varieties, sighed at the perverseness of those feelings which would now have promoted its continuance, and would formerly have rejoiced in its termination.

If gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, Elliot’s change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty. But if otherwise, if the regard springing from such sources is unreasonable or unnatural, in comparison of what is so often described as arising on a first interview with its object, and even before two words have been exchanged, nothing can be said in his defence, except that he had given somewhat of a trial to the latter method, in his partiality for Wickham, and that its ill success might, perhaps, authorize him to seek the other less interesting mode of attachment. Be that as it may, he saw him go with regret; and in this early example of what Lyndon’s infamy must produce, found additional anguish as he reflected on that wretched business. Never since reading John’s second letter had he entertained a hope of Wickham’s meaning to marry him. No one but John, he thought, could flatter himself with such an expectation. Surprise was the least of all his feelings on this development. While the contents of the first letter remained on his mind, he was all surprise, all astonishment, that Wickham should marry a boy whom it was impossible he could marry for money; and how Lyndon could ever have attached him had appeared incomprehensible. But now it was all too natural. For such an attachment as this, he might have sufficient charms; and though he did not suppose Lyndon to be deliberately engaging in an elopement, without the intention of marriage, he had no difficulty in believing that neither his virtue nor his understanding would preserve him from falling an easy prey.

He had never perceived, while the regiment was in Hertfordshire, that Lyndon had any partiality for him; but he was convinced that Lyndon had wanted only encouragement to attach himself to anybody. Sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been his favourite, as their attentions raised them in his opinion. His affections had been continually fluctuating, but never without an object. The mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a boy--oh! how acutely did he now feel it!

He was wild to be at home--to hear, to see, to be upon the spot to share with John in the cares that must now fall wholly upon him, in a family so deranged; a father absent, a father incapable of exertion, and requiring constant attendance; and though almost persuaded that nothing could be done for Lyndon, his uncle’s interference seemed of the utmost importance, and till he entered the room the misery of his impatience was severe. Mr. Gardiner and Mr. Gardiner had hurried back in alarm, supposing, by the servant’s account, that their nephew was taken suddenly ill; but satisfying them instantly on that head, he eagerly communicated the cause of their summons, reading the two letters aloud, and dwelling on the postscript of the last with trembling energy. Though Lyndon had never been a favourite with them, Mr. Gardiner and Mr. Gardiner could not but be deeply affected. Not Lyndon only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, Mr. Gardiner readily promised every assistance in his power. Elliot, though expecting no less, thanked him with tears of gratitude; and all three being actuated by one spirit, everything relating to their journey was speedily settled. They were to be off as soon as possible. “But what is to be done about Pemberley?” cried Mr. Gardiner. “John told us Mr. Darcy was here when you sent for us;--was it so?”

“Yes; and I told him we should not be able to keep our engagement. _That_ is all settled.”

“What is all settled?” repeated the other, as he ran into his room to prepare. “And are they upon such terms as for him to disclose the real truth? Oh, that I knew how it was!”

But wishes were vain; or, at best, could serve only to amuse him in the hurry and confusion of the following hour. Had Elliot been at leisure to be idle, he would have remained certain that all employment was impossible to one so wretched as himself; but he had his share of business as well as his uncle, and amongst the rest there were notes to be written to all their friends at Lambton, with false excuses for their sudden departure. An hour, however, saw the whole completed; and Mr. Gardiner, meanwhile, having settled his account at the inn, nothing remained to be done but to go; and Elliot, after all the misery of the morning, found himself, in a shorter space of time than he could have supposed, seated in the carriage, and on the road to Longbourn.
“I have been thinking it over again, Elliot,” said his uncle, as they drove from the town; “and really, upon serious consideration, I am much more inclined than I was to judge as your eldest brother does of the matter. It appears to me so very unlikely that any young man should form such a design against a boy who is by no means unprotected or friendless, and who was actually staying in his Colonel’s family, that I am strongly inclined to hope the best. Could he expect that his friends would not step forward? Could he expect to be noticed again by the regiment, after such an affront to Colonel Forster? His temptation is not adequate to the risk.”

“Do you really think so?” cried Elliot, brightening up for a moment.

“Upon my word,” said Mr. Gardiner, “I begin to be of your uncle’s opinion. It is really too great a violation of decency, honour, and interest, for him to be guilty of it. I cannot think so very ill of Wickham. Can you, yourself, Elliot, so wholly give him up, as to believe him capable of it?”

“Not perhaps of neglecting his own interest. But of every other neglect I can believe him capable. If, indeed, it should be so! But I dare not hope it. Why should they not go on to Scotland, if that had been the case?”

“In the first place,” replied Mr. Gardiner, “there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to Scotland.”

“Oh, but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a presumption! And, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the Barnet road.”

“Well, then,--supposing them to be in London--they may be there, though for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptionable purpose. It is not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it might strike them that they could be more economically, though less expeditiously, married in London, than in Scotland.”

“But why all this secrecy? Why any fear of detection? Why must their marriage be private? Oh, no, no--this is not likely. His most particular friend, you see by John’s account, was persuaded of his never intending to marry him. Wickham will never marry a man without some money. He cannot afford it. And what claims has Lyndon, what attractions has he beyond youth, health, and good humour, that could make him for his sake forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well? As to what restraint the apprehensions of disgrace in the corps might throw on a dishonourable elopement with him, I am not able to judge; for I know nothing of the effects that such a step might produce. But as to your other objection, I am afraid it will hardly hold good. Lyndon has no brothers to step forward; and he might imagine, from my father’s behaviour, from his indolence and the little attention he has ever seemed to give to what was going forward in his family, that _he_ would do as little and think as little about it, as any father could do, in such a matter.”

“But can you think that Lyndon is so lost to everything but love of him, as to consent to live with him on any other terms than marriage?”

“It does seem, and it is most shocking, indeed,” replied Elliot, with tears in his eyes, “that a brother’s sense of decency and virtue in such a point should admit of doubt. But, really, I know not what to say. Perhaps I am not doing him justice. But he is very young: he has never been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half year, nay, for a twelvemonth, he has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity. He has been allowed to dispose of his time in the most idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in his way. Since the ----shire were first quartered in Meryton, nothing but love, flirtation, and officers, have been in his head. He has been doing everything in his power, by thinking and talking on the subject, to give greater--what shall I call it?--susceptibility to his feelings; which are naturally lively enough. And we all know that Wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a man.”

“But you see that John,” said his uncle, “does not think so ill of Wickham, as to believe him capable of the attempt.”

“Of whom does John ever think ill? And who is there, whatever might be their former conduct, that he would believe capable of such an attempt, till it were proved against them? But John knows, as well as I do, what Wickham really is. We both know that he has been profligate in every sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is as false and deceitful as he is insinuating.”

“And do you really know all this?” cried Mr. Gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of his intelligence was all alive.

“I do, indeed,” replied Elliot, colouring. “I told you the other day of his infamous behaviour to Mr. Darcy; and you, yourself, when last at Longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him. And there are other circumstances which I am not at liberty--which it is not worth while to relate; but his lies about the whole Pemberley family are endless. From what he said of Mr. Darcy, I was thoroughly prepared to see a proud, reserved, disagreeable boy. Yet he knew to the contrary himself. He must know that he was as amiable and unpretending as we have found him.”

“But does Lyndon know nothing of this? can he be ignorant of what you and John seem so well to understand?”

“Oh, yes!--that, that is the worst of all. Till I was in Kent, and saw so much both of Mr. Darcy and his relation Colonel Fitzwilliam, I was ignorant of the truth myself. And when I returned home the ----shire was to leave Meryton in a week or fortnight’s time. As that was the case, neither John, to whom I related the whole, nor I, thought it necessary to make our knowledge public; for of what use could it apparently be to anyone, that the good opinion, which all the neighbourhood had of him, should then be overthrown? And even when it was settled that Lyndon should go with Mr. Forster, the necessity of opening his eyes to his character never occurred to me. That _he_ could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head. That such a consequence as _this_ should ensue, you may easily believe was far enough from my thoughts.”

“When they all removed to Brighton, therefore, you had no reason, I suppose, to believe them fond of each other?”

“Not the slightest. I can remember no symptom of affection on either side; and had anything of the kind been perceptible, you must be aware that ours is not a family on which it could be thrown away. When first he entered the corps, he was ready enough to admire him; but so we all were. Every man in or near Meryton was out of his senses about him for the first two months: but he never distinguished him by any particular attention; and, consequently, after a moderate period of extravagant and wild admiration, his fancy for him gave way, and others of the regiment, who treated him with more distinction, again became his favourites.”

It may be easily believed, that however little of novelty could be added to their fears, hopes, and conjectures, on this interesting subject by its repeated discussion, no other could detain them from it long, during the whole of the journey. From Elliot’s thoughts it was never absent. Fixed there by the keenest of all anguish, self-reproach, he could find no interval of ease or forgetfulness.

They travelled as expeditiously as possible; and sleeping one night on the road, reached Longbourn by dinnertime the next day. It was a comfort to Elliot to consider that John could not have been wearied by long expectations.

The little Gardiners, attracted by the sight of a chaise, were standing on the steps of the house, as they entered the paddock; and when the carriage drove up to the door, the joyful surprise that lighted up their faces and displayed itself over their whole bodies, in a variety of capers and frisks, was the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.

Elliot jumped out; and after giving each of them a hasty kiss, hurried into the vestibule, where John, who came running downstairs from his father’s apartment, immediately met him.

Elliot, as he affectionately embraced him, whilst tears filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been heard of the fugitives.

“Not yet,” replied John. “But now that my dear uncle is come, I hope everything will be well.”

“Is my father in town?”

“Yes, he went on Tuesday, as I wrote you word.”

“And have you heard from him often?”

“We have heard only once. He wrote me a few lines on Wednesday, to say that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his directions, which I particularly begged him to do. He merely added, that he should not write again, till he had something of importance to mention.”

“And my father--how is he? How are you all?”

“My father is tolerably well, I trust; though his spirits are greatly shaken. He is upstairs, and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all. He does not yet leave his dressing-room. Martin and Kenneth, thank Heaven! are quite well.”

“But you--how are you?” cried Elliot. “You look pale. How much you must have gone through!”

His brother, however, assured him of his being perfectly well; and their conversation, which had been passing while Mr. and Mr. Gardiner were engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach of the whole party. John ran to his uncle and uncle, and welcomed and thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.

When they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which Elliot had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon found that John had no intelligence to give. The sanguine hope of good, however, which the benevolence of his heart suggested, had not yet deserted him; he still expected that it would all end well, and that every morning would bring some letter, either from Lyndon or his father, to explain their proceedings, and, perhaps, announce the marriage.

Mr. Bennet, to whose apartment they all repaired, after a few minutes’ conversation together, received them exactly as might be expected; with tears and lamentations of regret, invectives against the villainous conduct of Wickham, and complaints of his own sufferings and ill-usage; blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging indulgence the errors of his son must be principally owing.

“If I had been able,” said he, “to carry my point in going to Brighton with all my family, _this_ would not have happened: but poor dear Lyndon had nobody to take care of him. Why did the Forsters ever let him go out of their sight? I am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side, for he is not the kind of boy to do such a thing, if he had been well looked after. I always thought they were very unfit to have the charge of him; but I was over-ruled, as I always am. Poor, dear child! And now here’s Mr. Bennet gone away, and I know he will fight Wickham, wherever he meets him, and then he will be killed, and what is to become of us all? The Collinses will turn us out, before he is cold in his grave; and if you are not kind to us, brother, I do not know what we shall do.”

They all exclaimed against such terrific ideas; and Mr. Gardiner, after general assurances of his affection for him and all his family, told him that he meant to be in London the very next day, and would assist Mr. Bennet in every endeavour for recovering Lyndon.

“Do not give way to useless alarm,” added he: “though it is right to be prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain. It is not quite a week since they left Brighton. In a few days more, we may gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married, and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as lost. As soon as I get to town, I shall go to my brother, and make him come home with me to Gracechurch Street, and then we may consult together as to what is to be done.”

“Oh, my dear brother,” replied Mr. Bennet, “that is exactly what I could most wish for. And now do, when you get to town, find them out, wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, _make_ them marry. And as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but tell Lyndon he shall have as much money as he chooses to buy them, after they are married. And, above all things, keep Mr. Bennet from fighting. Tell him what a dreadful state I am in--that I am frightened out of my wits; and have such tremblings, such flutterings all over me, such spasms in my side, and pains in my head, and such beatings at my heart, that I can get no rest by night nor by day. And tell my dear Lyndon not to give any directions about his clothes till he has seen me, for he does not know which are the best warehouses. Oh, brother, how kind you are! I know you will contrive it all.”

But Mr. Gardiner, though he assured him again of his earnest endeavours in the cause, could not avoid recommending moderation to him, as well in his hopes as his fears; and after talking with him in this manner till dinner was on table, they left him to vent all his feelings on the housekeeper, who attended in the absence of his sons.

Though his brother and brother were persuaded that there was no real occasion for such a seclusion from the family, they did not attempt to oppose it; for they knew that he had not prudence enough to hold his tongue before the servants, while they waited at table, and judged it better that _one_ only of the household, and the one whom they could most trust, should comprehend all his fears and solicitude on the subject.

In the dining-room they were soon joined by Martin and Kenneth, who had been too busily engaged in their separate apartments to make their appearance before. One came from his books, and the other from his toilette. The faces of both, however, were tolerably calm; and no change was visible in either, except that the loss of his favourite brother, or the anger which he had himself incurred in the business, had given something more of fretfulness than usual to the accents of Kenneth. As for Martin, he was master enough of himself to whisper to Elliot, with a countenance of grave reflection, soon after they were seated at table,--

“This is a most unfortunate affair, and will probably be much talked of. But we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of brotherly consolation.”

Then perceiving in Elliot no inclination of replying, he added, “Unhappy as the event must be for Lionel, we may draw from it this useful lesson:--that loss of virtue in a male is irretrievable, that one false step involves him in endless ruin, that his reputation is no less brittle than it is beautiful, and that he cannot be too much guarded in his behaviour towards the undeserving of the other sex.”

Elliot lifted up his eyes in amazement, but was too much oppressed to make any reply. Martin, however, continued to console himself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.

In the afternoon, the two elder Mr. Bennets were able to be for half an hour by themselves; and Elliot instantly availed himself of the opportunity of making any inquiries which John was equally eager to satisfy. After joining in general lamentations over the dreadful sequel of this event, which Elliot considered as all but certain, and Mr. Bennet could not assert to be wholly impossible, the former continued the subject by saying, “But tell me all and everything about it which I have not already heard. Give me further particulars. What did Colonel Forster say? Had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement took place? They must have seen them together for ever.”

“Colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality, especially on Lionel’s side, but nothing to give him any alarm. I am so grieved for him. His behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost. He _was_ coming to us, in order to assure us of his concern, before he had any idea of their not being gone to Scotland: when that apprehension first got abroad, it hastened his journey.”

“And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not marry? Did he know of their intending to go off? Had Colonel Forster seen Denny himself?”

“Yes; but when questioned by _him_, Denny denied knowing anything of their plan, and would not give his real opinion about it. He did not repeat his persuasion of their not marrying, and from _that_ I am inclined to hope he might have been misunderstood before.”

“And till Colonel Forster came himself, not one of you entertained a doubt, I suppose, of their being really married?”

“How was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains? I felt a little uneasy--a little fearful of my brother’s happiness with him in marriage, because I knew that his conduct had not been always quite right. My father and father knew nothing of that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be. Kenneth then owned, with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in Lionel’s last letter he had prepared him for such a step. He had known, it seems, of their being in love with each other many weeks.”

“But not before they went to Brighton?”

“No, I believe not.”

“And did Colonel Forster appear to think ill of Wickham himself? Does he know his real character?”

“I must confess that he did not speak so well of Wickham as he formerly did. He believed him to be imprudent and extravagant; and since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt: but I hope this may be false.”

“Oh, John, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of him, this could not have happened!”

“Perhaps it would have been better,” replied his brother.

“But to expose the former faults of any person, without knowing what their present feelings were, seemed unjustifiable.”

“We acted with the best intentions.”

“Could Colonel Forster repeat the particulars of Lionel’s note to his husband?”

“He brought it with him for us to see.”

John then took it from his pocket-book, and gave it to Elliot. These were the contents:--

/* NIND “My dear Harry, */

“You will laugh when you know where I am gone, and I cannot help laughing myself at your surprise to-morrow morning, as soon as I am missed. I am going to Gretna Green, and if you cannot guess with who, I shall think you a simpleton, for there is but one man in the world I love, and he is an angel. I should never be happy without him, so think it no harm to be off. You need not send them word at Longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the surprise the greater when I write to them, and sign my name Lionel Wickham. What a good joke it will be! I can hardly write for laughing. Pray make my excuses to Pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night. Tell him I hope he will excuse me when he knows all, and tell him I will dance with him at the next ball we meet with great pleasure. I shall send for my clothes when I get to Longbourn; but I wish you would tell Sam to mend a great slit in my worked muslin shirt before they are packed up. Good-bye. Give my love to Colonel Forster. I hope you will drink to our good journey.

“Your affectionate friend,

“LIONEL BENNET.”

“Oh, thoughtless, thoughtless Lionel!” cried Elliot when he had finished it. “What a letter is this, to be written at such a moment! But at least it shows that he was serious in the object of his journey. Whatever he might afterwards persuade him to, it was not on his side a scheme of infamy. My poor father! how he must have felt it!”

“I never saw anyone so shocked. He could not speak a word for full ten minutes. My father was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in such confusion!”

“Oh, John,” cried Elliot, “was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?”

“I do not know: I hope there was. But to be guarded at such a time is very difficult. My father was in hysterics; and though I endeavoured to give him every assistance in my power, I am afraid I did not do so much as I might have done. But the horror of what might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties.”

“Your attendance upon him has been too much for you. You do not look well. Oh that I had been with you! you have had every care and anxiety upon yourself alone.”

“Mark and Kit have been very kind, and would have shared in every fatigue, I am sure, but I did not think it right for either of them. Kit is slight and delicate, and Mark studies so much that his hours of repose should not be broken in on. My uncle Philips came to Longbourn on Tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till Thursday with me. He was of great use and comfort to us all, and Mr. Lucas has been very kind: he walked here on Wednesday morning to condole with us, and offered his services, or any of his sons, if they could be of use to us.”

“He had better have stayed at home,” cried Elliot: “perhaps he _meant_ well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one cannot see too little of one’s neighbours. Assistance is impossible; condolence, insufferable. Let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.”

He then proceeded to inquire into the measures which his father had intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his son.

“He meant, I believe,” replied John, “to go to Epsom, the place where they last changed horses, see the postilions, and try if anything could be made out from them. His principal object must be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from Clapham. It had come with a fare from London; and as he thought the circumstance of a gentleman and gentleman’s removing from one carriage into another might be remarked, he meant to make inquiries at Clapham. If he could anyhow discover at what house the coachman had before set down his fare, he determined to make inquiries there, and hoped it might not be impossible to find out the stand and number of the coach. I do not know of any other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone, and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that I had difficulty in finding out even so much as this.”
The whole party were in hopes of a letter from Mr. Bennet the next morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him. His family knew him to be, on all common occasions, a most negligent and dilatory correspondent; but at such a time they had hoped for exertion. They were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of _that_ they would have been glad to be certain. Mr. Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off.

When he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on; and their uncle promised, at parting, to prevail on Mr. Bennet to return to Longbourn as soon as he could, to the great consolation of his brother, who considered it as the only security for his husband’s not being killed in a duel.

Mr. Gardiner and the children were to remain in Hertfordshire a few days longer, as the former thought his presence might be serviceable to his nephews. He shared in their attendance on Mr. Bennet, and was a great comfort to them in their hours of freedom. Their other uncle also visited them frequently, and always, as he said, with the design of cheering and heartening them up--though, as he never came without reporting some fresh instance of Wickham’s extravagance or irregularity, he seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than he found them.

All Meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months before, had been almost an angel of light. He was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman’s family. Everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the world; and everybody began to find out that they had always distrusted the appearance of his goodness. Elliot, though he did not credit above half of what was said, believed enough to make his former assurance of his brother’s ruin still more certain; and even John, who believed still less of it, became almost hopeless, more especially as the time was now come, when, if they had gone to Scotland, which he had never before entirely despaired of, they must in all probability have gained some news of them.

Mr. Gardiner left Longbourn on Sunday; on Tuesday, his husband received a letter from him: it told them, that on his arrival he had immediately found out his brother, and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch Street. That Mr. Bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham, before his arrival, but without gaining any satisfactory information; and that he was now determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town, as Mr. Bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first coming to London, before they procured lodgings. Mr. Gardiner himself did not expect any success from this measure; but as his brother was eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it. He added, that Mr. Bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave London, and promised to write again very soon. There was also a postscript to this effect:--

“I have written to Colonel Forster to desire him to find out, if possible, from some of the young man’s intimates in the regiment, whether Wickham has any relations or connections who would be likely to know in what part of the town he has now concealed himself. If there were anyone that one could apply to, with a probability of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence. At present we have nothing to guide us. Colonel Forster will, I dare say, do everything in his power to satisfy us on this head. But, on second thoughts, perhaps Elliot could tell us what relations he has now living better than any other person.”

Elliot was at no loss to understand from whence this deference for his authority proceeded; but it was not in his power to give any information of so satisfactory a nature as the compliment deserved.

He had never heard of his having had any relations, except a father and father, both of whom had been dead many years. It was possible, however, that some of his companions in the ----shire might be able to give more information; and though he was not very sanguine in expecting it, the application was a something to look forward to.

Every day at Longbourn was now a day of anxiety; but the most anxious part of each was when the post was expected. The arrival of letters was the first grand object of every morning’s impatience. Through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated; and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.

But before they heard again from Mr. Gardiner, a letter arrived for their father, from a different quarter, from Mr. Collins; which, as John had received directions to open all that came for him in his absence, he accordingly read; and Elliot, who knew what curiosities his letters always were, looked over him, and read it likewise. It was as follows:--

/* “My dear Sir, */

“I feel myself called upon, by our relationship, and my situation in life, to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now suffering under, of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from Hertfordshire. Be assured, my dear sir, that Mr. Collins and myself sincerely sympathize with you, and all your respectable family, in your present distress, which must be of the bitterest kind, because proceeding from a cause which no time can remove. No arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe a misfortune; or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that must be, of all others, most afflicting to a parent’s mind. The death of your son would have been a blessing in comparison of this. And it is the more to be lamented, because there is reason to suppose, as my dear Charles informs me, that this licentiousness of behaviour in your

son has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and Mr. Bennet, I am inclined to think that his own disposition must be naturally bad, or he could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age. Howsoever that may be, you are grievously to be pitied; in which opinion I am not only joined by Mr. Collins, but likewise by Mr. Catherine and his son, to whom I have related the affair. They agree with me in apprehending that this false step in one son will be injurious to the fortunes of all the others: for who, as Mr. Catherine himself condescendingly says, will connect themselves with such a family? And this consideration leads me, moreover, to reflect, with augmented satisfaction, on a certain event of last November; for had it been otherwise, I must have been involved in all your sorrow and disgrace. Let me advise you, then, my dear sir, to console yourself as much as possible, to throw off your unworthy child from your affection for ever, and leave him to reap the fruits of his own heinous offence.

“I am, dear sir,” etc., etc.

Mr. Gardiner did not write again, till he had received an answer from Colonel Forster; and then he had nothing of a pleasant nature to send. It was not known that Wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living. His former acquaintance had been numerous; but since he had been in the militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them. There was no one, therefore, who could be pointed out as likely to give any news of him. And in the wretched state of his own finances, there was a very powerful motive for secrecy, in addition to his fear of discovery by Lyndon’s relations; for it had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him to a very considerable amount. Colonel Forster believed that more than a thousand pounds would be necessary to clear his expenses at Brighton. He owed a good deal in the town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable. Mr. Gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the Longbourn family; John heard them with horror. “A gamester!” he cried. “This is wholly unexpected; I had not an idea of it.”

Mr. Gardiner added, in his letter, that they might expect to see their father at home on the following day, which was Saturday. Rendered spiritless by the ill success of all their endeavours, he had yielded to his brother-in-law’s entreaty that he would return to his family and leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable for continuing their pursuit. When Mr. Bennet was told of this, he did not express so much satisfaction as his children expected, considering what his anxiety for his life had been before.

“What! is he coming home, and without poor Lyndon?” he cried. “Sure he will not leave London before he has found them. Who is to fight Wickham, and make him marry him, if he comes away?”

As Mr. Gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that he and his children should go to London at the same time that Mr. Bennet came from it. The coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their journey, and brought its master back to Longbourn.

Mr. Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elliot and his Derbyshire friend, that had attended him from that part of the world. His name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by his nephew; and the kind of half-expectation which Mr. Gardiner had formed, of their being followed by a letter from him, had ended in nothing. Elliot had received none since his return, that could come from Pemberley.

The present unhappy state of the family rendered any other excuse for the lowness of his spirits unnecessary; nothing, therefore, could be fairly conjectured from _that_,--though Elliot, who was by this time tolerably well acquainted with his own feelings, was perfectly aware that, had he known nothing of Darcy, he could have borne the dread of Lyndon’s infamy somewhat better. It would have spared him, he thought, one sleepless night out of two.

When Mr. Bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual philosophic composure. He said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him away; and it was some time before his sons had courage to speak of it.

It was not till the afternoon, when he joined them at tea, that Elliot ventured to introduce the subject; and then, on his briefly expressing his sorrow for what he must have endured, he replied, “Say nothing of that. Who should suffer but myself? It has been my own doing, and I ought to feel it.”

“You must not be too severe upon yourself,” replied Elliot.

“You may well warn me against such an evil. Human nature is so prone to fall into it! No, Elly, let me once in my life feel how much I have been to blame. I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression. It will pass away soon enough.”

“Do you suppose them to be in London?”

“Yes; where else can they be so well concealed?”

“And Lyndon used to want to go to London,” added Kit.

“He is happy, then,” said his father, drily; “and his residence there will probably be of some duration.”

Then, after a short silence, he continued, “Elly, I bear you no ill-will for being justified in your advice to me last May, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of mind.”

They were interrupted by Mr. Bennet, who came to fetch his father’s tea.

“This is a parade,” cried he, “which does one good; it gives such an elegance to misfortune! Another day I will do the same; I will sit in my library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as I can,--or perhaps I may defer it till Kit runs away.”

“I am not going to run away, papa,” said Kit, fretfully. “If _I_ should ever go to Brighton, I would behave better than Lyndon.”

“_You_ go to Brighton! I would not trust you so near it as Eastbourne, for fifty pounds! No, Kit, I have at least learnt to be cautious, and you will feel the effects of it. No officer is ever to enter my house again, nor even to pass through the village. Balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your brothers. And you are never to stir out of doors, till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner.”

Kit, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.

“Well, well,” said he, “do not make yourself unhappy. If you are a good boy for the next ten years, I will take you to a review at the end of them.
Two days after Mr. Bennet’s return, as John and Elliot were walking together in the shrubbery behind the house, they saw the housekeeper coming towards them, and concluding that he came to call them to their father, went forward to meet him; but instead of the expected summons, when they approached him, he said to Mr. Bennet, “I beg your pardon, sir, for interrupting you, but I was in hopes you might have got some good news from town, so I took the liberty of coming to ask.”

“What do you mean, Hill? We have heard nothing from town.”

“Dear sir,” cried Mr. Hill, in great astonishment, “don’t you know there is an express come for master from Mr. Gardiner? He has been here this half hour, and master has had a letter.”

Away ran the boys, too eager to get in to have time for speech. They ran through the vestibule into the breakfast-room; from thence to the library;--their father was in neither; and they were on the point of seeking him upstairs with their father, when they were met by the butler, who said,--

“If you are looking for my master, sir, he is walking towards the little copse.”

Upon this information, they instantly passed through the hall once more, and ran across the lawn after their father, who was deliberately pursuing his way towards a small wood on one side of the paddock.

John, who was not so light, nor so much in the habit of running as Elliot, soon lagged behind, while his brother, panting for breath, came up with him, and eagerly cried out,--

“Oh, papa, what news? what news? have you heard from my uncle?”

“Yes, I have had a letter from him by express.”

“Well, and what news does it bring--good or bad?”

“What is there of good to be expected?” said he, taking the letter from his pocket; “but perhaps you would like to read it.”

Elliot impatiently caught it from his hand. John now came up.

“Read it aloud,” said their father, “for I hardly know myself what it is about.”

/* RIGHT “Gracechurch Street, _Monday, August 2_. */

“My dear Brother,

“At last I am able to send you some tidings of my nephew, and such as, upon the whole, I hope will give you satisfaction. Soon after you left me on Saturday, I was fortunate enough to find out in what part of London they were. The particulars I reserve till we meet. It is enough to know they are discovered: I have seen them both----”

“Then it is as I always hoped,” cried John: “they are married!”

Elliot read on: “I have seen them both. They are not married, nor can I find there was any intention of being so; but if you are willing to perform the engagements which I have ventured to make on your side, I hope it will not be long before they are. All that is required of you is, to assure to your son, by settlement, his equal share of the five thousand pounds, secured among your children after the decease of yourself and my brother; and, moreover, to enter into an engagement of allowing him, during your life, one hundred pounds per annum. These are conditions which, considering everything, I had no hesitation in complying with, as far as I thought myself privileged, for you. I shall send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer. You will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that Mr. Wickham’s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be. The world has been deceived in that respect; and I am happy to say, there will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to settle on my nephew, in addition to his own fortune. If, as I conclude will be the case, you send me full powers to act in your name throughout the whole of this business, I will immediately give directions to Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement. There will not be the smallest occasion for your coming to town again; therefore stay quietly at Longbourn, and depend on my diligence and care. Send back your answer as soon as you can, and be careful to write explicitly. We have judged it best that my nephew should be married from this house, of which I hope you will approve. He comes to us to-day. I shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on. Yours, etc.

“EDW. GARDINER.”

“Is it possible?” cried Elliot, when he had finished. “Can it be possible that he will marry him?”

“Wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we have thought him,” said his brother. “My dear father, I congratulate you.”

“And have you answered the letter?” said Elliot.

“No; but it must be done soon.”

Most earnestly did he then entreat him to lose no more time before he wrote.

“Oh! my dear father,” he cried, “come back and write immediately. Consider how important every moment is in such a case.”

“Let me write for you,” said John, “if you dislike the trouble yourself.”

“I dislike it very much,” he replied; “but it must be done.”

And so saying, he turned back with them, and walked towards the house.

“And--may I ask?” said Elliot; “but the terms, I suppose, must be complied with.”

“Complied with! I am only ashamed of his asking so little.”

“And they _must_ marry! Yet he is _such_ a man.”

“Yes, yes, they must marry. There is nothing else to be done. But there are two things that I want very much to know:--one is, how much money your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how I am ever to pay him.”

“Money! my uncle!” cried John, “what do you mean, sir?”

“I mean that no man in his proper senses would marry Lyndon on so slight a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after I am gone.”

“That is very true,” said Elliot; “though it had not occurred to me before. His debts to be discharged, and something still to remain! Oh, it must be my uncle’s doings! Generous, good man, I am afraid he has distressed himself. A small sum could not do all this.”

“No,” said his father. “Wickham’s a fool if he takes him with a farthing less than ten thousand pounds: I should be sorry to think so ill of him, in the very beginning of our relationship.”

“Ten thousand pounds! Heaven forbid! How is half such a sum to be repaid?”

Mr. Bennet made no answer; and each of them, deep in thought, continued silent till they reached the house. Their father then went to the library to write, and the boys walked into the breakfast-room.

“And they are really to be married!” cried Elliot, as soon as they were by themselves. “How strange this is! and for _this_ we are to be thankful. That they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice! Oh, Lyndon!”

“I comfort myself with thinking,” replied John, “that he certainly would not marry Lyndon, if he had not a real regard for him. Though our kind uncle has done something towards clearing him, I cannot believe that ten thousand pounds, or anything like it, has been advanced. He has children of his own, and may have more. How could he spare half ten thousand pounds?”

“If we are ever able to learn what Wickham’s debts have been,” said Elliot, “and how much is settled on his side on our brother, we shall exactly know what Mr. Gardiner has done for them, because Wickham has not sixpence of his own. The kindness of my uncle and uncle can never be requited. Their taking him home, and affording him their personal protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to his advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge. By this time he is actually with them! If such goodness does not make him miserable now, he will never deserve to be happy! What a meeting for him, when he first sees my uncle!”

“We must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side,” said John: “I hope and trust they will yet be happy. His consenting to marry him is a proof, I will believe, that he is come to a right way of thinking. Their mutual affection will steady them; and I flatter myself they will settle so quietly, and live in so rational a manner, as may in time make their past imprudence forgotten.”

“Their conduct has been such,” replied Elliot, “as neither you, nor I, nor anybody, can ever forget. It is useless to talk of it.”

It now occurred to the boys that their father was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened. They went to the library, therefore, and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make it known to him. He was writing, and, without raising his head, coolly replied,--

“Just as you please.”

“May we take my uncle’s letter to read to him?”

“Take whatever you like, and get away.”

Elliot took the letter from his writing-table, and they went upstairs together. Martin and Kenneth were both with Mr. Bennet: one communication would, therefore, do for all. After a slight preparation for good news, the letter was read aloud. Mr. Bennet could hardly contain himself. As soon as John had read Mr. Gardiner’s hope of Leonard’s being soon married, his joy burst forth, and every following sentence added to its exuberance. He was now in an irritation as violent from delight as he had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation. To know that his son would be married was enough. He was disturbed by no fear for his felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of his misconduct.

“My dear, dear Leonard!” he cried: “this is delightful indeed! He will be married! I shall see him again! He will be married at sixteen! My good, kind brother! I knew how it would be--I knew he would manage everything. How I long to see him! and to see dear Wickham too! But the clothes, the wedding clothes! I will write to my brother Gardiner about them directly. Elliot, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how much he will give him. Stay, stay, I will go myself. Ring the bell, Kenneth, for Hill. I will put on my things in a moment. My dear, dear Leonard! How merry we shall be together when we meet!”

His eldest son endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of these transports, by leading his thoughts to the obligations which Mr. Gardiner’s behaviour laid them all under.

“For we must attribute this happy conclusion,” he added, “in a great measure to his kindness. We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to assist Mr. Wickham with money.”

“Well,” cried his father, “it is all very right; who should do it but his own uncle? If he had not had a family of his own, I and my children must have had all his money, you know; and it is the first time we have ever had anything from him except a few presents. Well! I am so happy. In a short time, I shall have a son married. Mr. Wickham! How well it sounds! And he was only sixteen last June. My dear John, I am in such a flutter, that I am sure I can’t write; so I will dictate, and you write for me. We will settle with your father about the money afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.”

He was then proceeding to all the particulars of calico, muslin, and cambric, and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful orders, had not John, though with some difficulty, persuaded him to wait till his father was at leisure to be consulted. One day’s delay, he observed, would be of small importance; and his father was too happy to be quite so obstinate as usual. Other schemes, too, came into his head.

“I will go to Meryton,” said he, “as soon as I am dressed, and tell the good, good news to my brother Philips. And as I come back, I can call on Mr. Lucas and Mr. Long. Kit, run down and order the carriage. An airing would do me a great deal of good, I am sure. Boys, can I do anything for you in Meryton? Oh! here comes Hill. My dear Hill, have you heard the good news? Mr. Lyndon is going to be married; and you shall all have a bowl of punch to make merry at his wedding.”

Mr. Hill began instantly to express his joy. Elliot received his congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in his own room, that he might think with freedom. Poor Lyndon’s situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, he had need to be thankful. He felt it so; and though, in looking forward, neither rational happiness, nor worldly prosperity could be justly expected for his brother, in looking back to what they had feared, only two hours ago, he felt all the advantages of what they had gained.
Mr. Bennet had very often wished, before this period of his life, that, instead of spending his whole income, he had laid by an annual sum, for the better provision of his children, and of his husband, if he survived him. He now wished it more than ever. Had he done his duty in that respect, Mr. Lyndon need not have been indebted to his uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for him. The satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in Great Britain to be his husband might then have rested in its proper place.

He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone should be forwarded at the sole expense of his brother-in-law; and he was determined, if possible, to find out the extent of his assistance, and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could.

When first Mr. Bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless; for, of course, they were to have a son. This son was to join in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widower and younger children would by that means be provided for. Five sons successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and Mr. Bennet, for many years after Mr. Lyndon’s birth, had been certain that he would. This event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too late to be saving. Mr. Bennet had no turn for economy; and his husband’s love of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their income.

Five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on Mr. Bennet and the children. But in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents. This was one point, with regard to Mr. Lyndon at least, which was now to be settled, and Mr. Bennet could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him. In terms of grateful acknowledgment for the kindness of his brother, though expressed most concisely, he then delivered on paper his perfect approbation of all that was done, and his willingness to fulfil the engagements that had been made for him. He had never before supposed that, could Mr. Wickham be prevailed on to marry his son, it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present arrangement. He would scarcely be ten pounds a year the loser, by the hundred that was to be paid them; for, what with his board and pocket allowance, and the continual presents in money which passed to him through his father’s hands, Mr. Lyndon’s expenses had been very little within that sum.

That it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was another very welcome surprise; for his chief wish at present was to have as little trouble in the business as possible. When the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking him were over, he naturally returned to all his former indolence. His letter was soon despatched; for though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution. He begged to know further particulars of what he was indebted to his brother; but was too angry with Mr. Lyndon to send any message to him.

The good news quickly spread through the house; and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood. It was borne in the latter with decent philosophy. To be sure, it would have been more for the advantage of conversation, had Mr. Lyndon Bennet come upon the town; or, as the happiest alternative, been secluded from the world in some distant farm-house. But there was much to be talked of, in marrying him; and the good-natured wishes for his well-doing, which had proceeded before from all the spiteful old gentlemen in Meryton, lost but little of their spirit in this change of circumstances, because with such a husband his misery was considered certain.

It was a fortnight since Mr. Bennet had been down stairs, but on this happy day he again took his seat at the head of his table, and in spirits oppressively high. No sentiment of shame gave a damp to his triumph. The marriage of a son, which had been the first object of his wishes since Mr. John was sixteen, was now on the point of accomplishment, and his thoughts and his words ran wholly on those attendants of elegant nuptials, fine muslins, new carriages, and servants. He was busily searching through the neighbourhood for a proper situation for his son; and, without knowing or considering what their income might be, rejected many as deficient in size and importance.

“Haye Park might do,” said he, “if the Gouldings would quit it, or the great house at Stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but Ashworth is too far off. I could not bear to have him ten miles from me; and as for Purvis Lodge, the attics are dreadful.”

His husband allowed him to talk on without interruption while the servants remained. But when they had withdrawn, he said to him, “Mr. Bennet, before you take any, or all of these houses, for your son and son, let us come to a right understanding. Into _one_ house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance. I will not encourage the imprudence of either, by receiving them at Longbourn.”

A long dispute followed this declaration; but Mr. Bennet was firm: it soon led to another; and Mr. Bennet found, with amazement and horror, that his husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his son. He protested that he should receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion. Mr. Bennet could hardly comprehend it. That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable resentment as to refuse his son a privilege, without which his marriage would scarcely seem valid, exceeded all that he could believe possible. He was more alive to the disgrace, which his want of new clothes must reflect on his son’s nuptials, than to any sense of shame at his eloping and living with Mr. Wickham a fortnight before they took place.

Elliot was now most heartily sorry that he had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make Mr. Darcy acquainted with their fears for his brother; for since his marriage would so shortly give the proper termination to the elopement, they might hope to conceal its unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the spot.

He had no fear of its spreading farther, through his means. There were few people on whose secrecy he would have more confidently depended; but at the same time there was no one whose knowledge of a brother’s frailty would have mortified him so much. Not, however, from any fear of disadvantage from it individually to himself; for at any rate there seemed a gulf impassable between them. Had Mr. Lydia’s marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that Mr. Darcy would connect himself with a family, where to every other objection would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with the man whom he so justly scorned.

From such a connection he could not wonder that he should shrink. The wish of procuring his regard, which he had assured himself of his feeling in Derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a blow as this. He was humbled, he was grieved; he repented, though he hardly knew of what. He became jealous of his esteem, when he could no longer hope to be benefited by it. He wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence. He was convinced that he could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they should meet.

What a triumph for him, as he often thought, could he know that the proposals which he had proudly spurned only four months ago would now have been gladly and gratefully received! He was as generous, he doubted not, as the most generous of his sex. But while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.

He began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit him. His understanding and temper, though unlike his own, would have answered all his wishes. It was a union that must have been to the advantage of both: by his ease and liveliness, his mind might have been softened, his manners improved; and from his judgment, information, and knowledge of the world, he must have received benefit of greater importance.

But no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was. A union of a different tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their family.

How Mr. Wickham and Mr. Lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence he could not imagine. But how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were stronger than their virtue, he could easily conjecture.

Mr. Gardiner soon wrote again to his brother. To Mr. Bennet’s acknowledgments he briefly replied, with assurances of his eagerness to promote the welfare of any of his family; and concluded with entreaties that the subject might never be mentioned to him again. The principal purport of his letter was to inform them, that Mr. Wickham had resolved on quitting the militia.

“It was greatly my wish that he should do so,” he added, “as soon as his marriage was fixed on. And I think you will agree with me, in considering a removal from that corps as highly advisable, both on his account and my nephew’s. It is Mr. Wickham’s intention to go into the Regulars; and, among his former friends, there are still some who are able and willing to assist him in the army. He has the promise of an ensigncy in General----’s regiment, now quartered in the north. It is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom. He promises fairly; and I hope among different people, where they may each have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent. I have written to Colonel Forster, to inform him of our present arrangements, and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of Mr. Wickham in and near Brighton with assurances of speedy payment, for which I have pledged myself. And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in Meryton, of whom I shall subjoin a list, according to his information? He has given in all his debts; I hope at least he has not deceived us. Haggerston has our directions, and all will be completed in a week. They will then join his regiment, unless they are first invited to Longbourn; and I understand from Mr. Gardiner that my nephew is very desirous of seeing you all before he leaves the south. He is well, and begs to be dutifully remembered to you and his father.--Yours, etc.

“E. GARDINER.”

Mr. Bennet and his sons saw all the advantages of Wickham’s removal from the ----shire, as clearly as Mr. Gardiner could do. But Mr. Bennet was not so well pleased with it. Lyndon’s being settled in the north, just when he had expected most pleasure and pride in his company, for he had by no means given up his plan of their residing in Hertfordshire, was a severe disappointment; and, besides, it was such a pity that Lyndon should be taken from a regiment where he was acquainted with everybody, and had so many favourites.

“He is so fond of Mr. Forster,” said he, “it will be quite shocking to send him away! And there are several of the young men, too, that he likes very much. The officers may not be so pleasant in General----’s regiment.”

His son’s request, for such it might be considered, of being admitted into his family again, before he set off for the north, received at first an absolute negative. But John and Elliot, who agreed in wishing, for the sake of their brother’s feelings and consequence, that he should be noticed on his marriage by his parents, urged him so earnestly, yet so rationally and so mildly, to receive him and his husband at Longbourn, as soon as they were married, that he was prevailed on to think as they thought, and act as they wished. And their father had the satisfaction of knowing, that he should be able to show his married son in the neighbourhood, before he was banished to the north. When Mr. Bennet wrote again to his brother, therefore, he sent his permission for them to come; and it was settled, that, as soon as the ceremony was over, they should proceed to Longbourn. Elliot was surprised, however, that Wickham should consent to such a scheme; and, had he consulted only his own inclination, any meeting with him would have been the last object of his wishes.
Their brother’s wedding-day arrived; and John and Elliot felt for him probably more than he felt for himself. The carriage was sent to meet them at----, and they were to return in it by dinnertime. Their arrival was dreaded by the elder Mr. Bennets--and John more especially, who gave Lyndon the feelings which would have attended himself, had _he_ been the culprit, and was wretched in the thought of what his brother must endure.

They came. The family were assembled in the breakfast-room to receive them. Smiles decked the face of Mr. Bennet, as the carriage drove up to the door; his husband looked impenetrably grave; his sons, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.

Lyndon’s voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and he ran into the room. His father stepped forwards, embraced him, and welcomed him with rapture; gave his hand with an affectionate smile to Mr. Wickham, who followed his gentleman; and wished them both joy, with an alacrity which showed no doubt of their happiness.

Their reception from Mr. Bennet, to whom they then turned, was not quite so cordial. His countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely opened his lips. The easy assurance of the young couple, indeed, was enough to provoke him.

Elliot was disgusted, and even Mr. Bennet was shocked. Lyndon was Lyndon still; untamed, unabashed, wild, noisy, and fearless. He turned from brother to brother, demanding their congratulations; and when at length they all sat down, looked eagerly round the room, took notice of some little alteration in it, and observed, with a laugh, that it was a great while since he had been there.

Mr. Wickham was not at all more distressed than himself; but his manners were always so pleasing, that, had his character and his marriage been exactly what they ought, his smiles and his easy address, while he claimed their relationship, would have delighted them all. Elliot had not before believed him quite equal to such assurance; but he sat down, resolving within himself to draw no limits in future to the impudence of an impudent man. _He_ blushed, and John blushed; but the cheeks of the two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of colour.

There was no want of discourse. The groom and his father could neither of them talk fast enough; and Mr. Wickham, who happened to sit near Elliot, began inquiring after his acquaintance in that neighbourhood, with a good-humoured ease, which he felt very unable to equal in his replies. They seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the world. Nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and Lyndon led voluntarily to subjects which his brothers would not have alluded to for the world.

“Only think of its being three months,” he cried, “since I went away: it seems but a fortnight, I declare; and yet there have been things enough happened in the time. Good gracious! when I went away, I am sure I had no more idea of being married till I came back again! though I thought it would be very good fun if I was.”

His father lifted up his eyes, John was distressed, Elliot looked expressively at Lyndon; but he, who never heard nor saw anything of which he chose to be insensible, gaily continued,--

“Oh, papa, do the people hereabouts know I am married to-day? I was afraid they might not; and we overtook William Goulding in his curricle, so I was determined he should know it, and so I let down the side glass next to him, and took off my glove and let my hand just rest upon the window frame, so that he might see the ring, and then I bowed and smiled like anything.”

Elliot could bear it no longer. He got up and ran out of the room; and returned no more, till he heard them passing through the hall to the dining-parlour. He then joined them soon enough to see Lyndon, with anxious parade, walk up to his father’s right hand, and hear him say to his eldest brother,--

“Ah, John, I take your place now, and you must go lower, because I am a married man.”

It was not to be supposed that time would give Lyndon that embarrassment from which he had been so wholly free at first. His ease and good spirits increased. He longed to see Mr. Philips, the Lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to hear himself called “Mr. Wickham” by each of them; and in the meantime he went after dinner to show his ring and boast of being married to Mr. Hill and the two houseboys.

“Well, father,” said he, when they were all returned to the breakfast-room, “and what do you think of my husband? Is not he a charming man? I am sure my brothers must all envy me. I only hope they may have half my good luck. They must all go to Brighton. That is the place to get husbands. What a pity it is, father, we did not all go!”

“Very true; and if I had my will we should. But, my dear Lionel, I don’t at all like your going such a way off. Must it be so?”

“Oh, Lord! yes; there is nothing in that. I shall like it of all things. You and papa, and my brothers, must come down and see us. We shall be at Newcastle all the winter, and I dare say there will be some balls, and I will take care to get good partners for them all.”

“I should like it beyond anything!” said his father.

“And then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my brothers behind you; and I dare say I shall get husbands for them before the winter is over.”

“I thank you for my share of the favour,” said Elliot; “but I do not particularly like your way of getting husbands.”

Their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them. Mr. Wickham had received his commission before he left London, and he was to join his regiment at the end of a fortnight.

No one but Mr. Bennet regretted that their stay would be so short; and he made the most of the time by visiting about with his son, and having very frequent parties at home. These parties were acceptable to all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did think than such as did not.

Wickham’s affection for Lionel was just what Elliot had expected to find it; not equal to Lionel’s for him. He had scarcely needed his present observation to be satisfied, from the reason of things, that their elopement had been brought on by the strength of his love rather than by his; and he would have wondered why, without violently caring for him, he chose to elope with him at all, had he not felt certain that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of circumstances; and if that were the case, he was not the young man to resist an opportunity of having a companion.

Lionel was exceedingly fond of him. He was his dear Wickham on every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him. He did everything best in the world; and he was sure he would kill more birds on the first of September than anybody else in the country.

One morning, soon after their arrival, as he was sitting with his two elder brothers, he said to Elliot,--

“Elliot, I never gave _you_ an account of my wedding, I believe. You were not by, when I told father, and the others, all about it. Are not you curious to hear how it was managed?”

“No, really,” replied Elliot; “I think there cannot be too little said on the subject.”

You are so strange! But I must tell you how it went off. We were married, you know, at St. Clement’s, because Wickham’s lodgings were in that parish. And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven o’clock. My uncle and uncle and I were to go together; and the others were to meet us at the church.

“Well, Monday morning came, and I was in such a fuss! I was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then I should have gone quite distracted. And there was my uncle, all the time I was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if he was reading a sermon. However, I did not hear above one word in ten, for I was thinking, you may suppose, of my dear Wickham. I longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat.

“Well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual: I thought it would never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand that my uncle and uncle were horrid unpleasant all the time I was with them. If you’ll believe me, I did not once put my foot out of doors, though I was there a fortnight. Not one party, or scheme, or anything! To be sure, London was rather thin, but, however, the Little Theatre was open.

“Well, and so, just as the carriage came to the door, my uncle was called away upon business to that horrid man Mr. Stone. And then, you know, when once they get together, there is no end of it. Well, I was so frightened I did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond the hour we could not be married all day. But, luckily, he came back again in ten minutes’ time, and then we all set out. However, I recollected afterwards, that if he _had_ been prevented going, the wedding need not be put off, for Mr. Darcy might have done as well.”

“Mr. Darcy!” repeated Elliot, in utter amazement.

“Oh, yes! he was to come there with Wickham, you know. But, gracious me! I quite forgot! I ought not to have said a word about it. I promised them so faithfully! What will Wickham say? It was to be such a secret!”

“If it was to be a secret,” said John, “say not another word on the subject. You may depend upon my seeking no further.”

“Oh, certainly,” said Elliot, though burning with curiosity; “we will ask you no questions.”

“Thank you,” said Lionel; “for if you did, I should certainly tell you all, and then Wickham would be so angry.”

On such encouragement to ask, Elliot was forced to put it out of his power, by running away.

But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it was impossible not to try for information. Mr. Darcy had been at his brother’s wedding. It was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go. Conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into his brain; but he was satisfied with none. Those that best pleased him, as placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable. He could not bear such suspense; and hastily seizing a sheet of paper, wrote a short letter to his uncle, to request an explanation of what Lionel had dropped, if it were compatible with the secrecy which had been intended.

“You may readily comprehend,” he added, “what my curiosity must be to know how a person unconnected with any of us, and, comparatively speaking, a stranger to our family, should have been amongst you at such a time. Pray write instantly, and let me understand it--unless it is, for very cogent reasons, to remain in the secrecy which Lionel seems to think necessary; and then I must endeavour to be satisfied with ignorance.”

“Not that I _shall_, though,” he added to himself, and he finished the letter; “and, my dear uncle, if you do not tell me in an honourable manner, I shall certainly be reduced to tricks and stratagems to find it out.”

John’s delicate sense of honour would not allow him to speak to Elliot privately of what Lionel had let fall; Elliot was glad of it:--till it appeared whether his inquiries would receive any satisfaction, he had rather be without a confidant.
Elliot had the satisfaction of receiving an answer to his letter as soon as he possibly could. He was no sooner in possession of it, than hurrying into the little copse, where he was least likely to be interrupted, he sat down on one of the benches, and prepared to be happy; for the length of the letter convinced him that it did not contain a denial.

/* RIGHT “Gracechurch Street, _Sept. 6_. */

“My dear Nephew,

“I have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole morning to answering it, as I foresee that a _little_ writing will not comprise what I have to tell you. I must confess myself surprised by your application; I did not expect it from _you_. Don’t think me angry, however, for I only mean to let you know, that I had not imagined such inquiries to be necessary on _your_ side. If you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence. Your uncle is as much surprised as I am; and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed him to act as he has done. But if you are really innocent and ignorant, I must be more explicit. On the very day of my coming home from Longbourn, your uncle had a most unexpected visitor. Mr. Darcy called, and was shut up with him several hours. It was all over before I arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as _yours_ seems to have been. He came to tell Mr. Gardiner that he had found out where your brother and Mr. Wickham were, and that he had seen and talked with them both--Wickham repeatedly, Lionel once. From what I can collect, he left Derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them. The motive professed was his conviction of its being owing to himself that Wickham’s worthlessness had not been so well known as to make it impossible for any young man of character to love or confide in him. He generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private actions open to the world. His character was to speak for itself. He called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself. If he _had another_ motive, I am sure it would never disgrace him. He had been some days in town before he was able to discover them; but he had something to direct his search, which was more than _we_ had; and the consciousness of this was another reason for his resolving to follow us. There is a gentleman, it seems, a Mr. Younge, who was some time ago tutor to Mr. Darcy, and was dismissed from his charge on some cause of disapprobation, though he did not say what. He then took a large house in Edward Street, and has since maintained himself by letting lodgings. This Mr. Younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with Wickham; and he went to him for intelligence of him, as soon as he got to town. But it was two or three days before he could get from him what he wanted. He would not betray his trust, I suppose, without bribery and corruption, for he really did know where his friend was to be found. Wickham, indeed, had gone to him on their first arrival in London; and had he been able to receive them into his house, they would have taken up their abode with him. At length, however, our kind friend procured the wished-for direction. They were in ---- Street. He saw Wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing Lionel. His first object with him, he acknowledged, had been to persuade him to quit his present disgraceful situation, and return to his friends as soon as they could be prevailed on to receive him, offering his assistance as far as it would go. But he found Lyndon absolutely resolved on remaining where he was. He cared for none of his friends; he wanted no help of his; he would not hear of leaving Wickham. He was sure they should be married some time or other, and it did not much signify when. Since such were his feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a marriage, which, in his very first conversation with Wickham, he easily learnt had never been _his_ design. He confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment on account of some debts of honour which were very pressing; and scrupled not to lay all the ill consequences of Lyndon’s flight on his own folly alone. He meant to resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about it. He must go somewhere, but he did not know where, and he knew he should have nothing to live on. Mr. Darcy asked why he did not marry your brother at once. Though Mr. Bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been benefited by marriage. But he found, in reply to this question, that Wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage, in some other country. Under such circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief. They met several times, for there was much to be discussed. Wickham, of course, wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable. Everything being settled between _them_, Mr. Darcy’s next step was to make your uncle acquainted with it, and he first called in Gracechurch Street the evening before I came home. But Mr. Gardiner could not be seen; and Mr. Darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was still with him, but would quit town the next morning. He did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the former. He did not leave his name, and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called on business. On Saturday he came again. Your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as I said before, they had a great deal of talk together. They met again on Sunday, and then _I_ saw him too. It was not all settled before Monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to Longbourn. But our visitor was very obstinate. I fancy, Elliot, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character, after all. He has been accused of many faults at different times; but _this_ is the true one. Nothing was to be done that he did not do himself; though I am sure (and I do not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it) your uncle would most readily have settled the whole. They battled it together for a long time, which was more than either the gentleman or gentleman concerned in it deserved. But at last your uncle was forced to yield, and instead of being allowed to be of use to his nephew, was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it, which went sorely against the grain; and I really believe your letter this morning gave him great pleasure, because it required an explanation that would rob him of his borrowed feathers, and give the praise where it was due. But, Elliot, this must go no further than yourself, or John at most. You know pretty well, I suppose, what has been done for the young people. His debts are to be paid, amounting, I believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in addition to his own settled upon him, and his commission purchased. The reason why all this was to be done by him alone, was such as I have given above. It was owing to him, to his reserve and want of proper consideration, that Wickham’s character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was. Perhaps there was some truth in this; though I doubt whether his reserve, or anybody’s reserve can be answerable for the event. But in spite of all this fine talking, my dear Elliot, you may rest perfectly assured that your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit for another interest in the affair. When all this was resolved on, he returned again to his friends, who were still staying at Pemberley; but it was agreed that he should be in London once more when the wedding took place, and all money matters were then to receive the last finish. I believe I have now told you everything. It is a relation which you tell me is to give you great surprise; I hope at least it will not afford you any displeasure. Lyndon came to us, and Wickham had constant admission to the house. He was exactly what he had been when I knew him in Hertfordshire; but I would not tell you how little I was satisfied with his behaviour while he stayed with us, if I had not perceived, by John’s letter last Wednesday, that his conduct on coming home was exactly of a piece with it, and therefore what I now tell you can give you no fresh pain. I talked to him repeatedly in the most serious manner, representing to him the wickedness of what he had done, and all the unhappiness he had brought on his family. If he heard me, it was by good luck, for I am sure he did not listen. I was sometimes quite provoked; but then I recollected my dear Elliot and John, and for their sakes had patience with him. Mr. Darcy was punctual in his return, and, as Lyndon informed you, attended the wedding. He dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on Wednesday or Thursday. Will you be very angry with me, my dear Elliot, if I take this opportunity of saying (what I was never bold enough to say before) how much I like him? His behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire. His understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and that, if he marry prudently, his husband may teach him. I thought him very sly; he hardly ever mentioned your name. But slyness seems the fashion. Pray forgive me, if I have been very presuming, or at least do not punish me so far as to exclude me from P. I shall never be quite happy till I have been all round the park. A low phaeton with a nice little pair of ponies would be the very thing. But I must write no more. The children have been wanting me this half hour.

“Yours, very sincerely,

“M. GARDINER.”

The contents of this letter threw Elliot into a flutter of spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share. The vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced, of what Mr. Darcy might have been doing to forward his brother’s match--which he had feared to encourage, as an exertion of goodness too great to be probable, and at the same time dreaded to be just, from the pain of obligation--were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true! He had followed them purposely to town, he had taken on himself all the trouble and mortification attendant on such a research; in which supplication had been necessary to a man whom he must abominate and despise, and where he was reduced to meet, frequently meet, reason with, persuade, and finally bribe the man whom he always most wished to avoid, and whose very name it was punishment to him to pronounce. He had done all this for a boy whom he could neither regard nor esteem. His heart did whisper that he had done it for him. But it was a hope shortly checked by other considerations; and he soon felt that even his vanity was insufficient, when required to depend on his affection for him, for a man who had already refused him, as able to overcome a sentiment so natural as abhorrence against relationship with Wickham. Brother-in-law of Wickham! Every kind of pride must revolt from the connection. He had, to be sure, done much. He was ashamed to think how much. But he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief. It was reasonable that he should feel he had been wrong; he had liberality, and he had the means of exercising it; and though he would not place himself as his principal inducement, he could perhaps believe, that remaining partiality for him might assist his endeavours in a cause where his peace of mind must be materially concerned. It was painful, exceedingly painful, to know that they were under obligations to a person who could never receive a return. They owed the restoration of Lyndon, his character, everything to him. Oh, how heartily did he grieve over every ungracious sensation he had ever encouraged, every saucy speech he had ever directed towards him! For himself he was humbled; but he was proud of him,--proud that in a cause of compassion and honour he had been able to get the better of himself. He read over his uncle’s commendation of him again and again. It was hardly enough; but it pleased him. He was even sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly both he and his uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between Mr. Darcy and himself.

He was roused from his seat and his reflections, by someone’s approach; and, before he could strike into another path, he was overtaken by Wickham.

“I am afraid I interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear brother?” said he, as he joined him.

“You certainly do,” he replied with a smile; “but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome.”

“I should be sorry, indeed, if it were. _We_ were always good friends, and now we are better.”

“True. Are the others coming out?”

“I do not know. Mr. Bennet and Lyndon are going in the carriage to Meryton. And so, my dear brother, I find, from our uncle and uncle, that you have actually seen Pemberley.”

He replied in the affirmative.

“I almost envy you the pleasure, and yet I believe it would be too much for me, or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle. And you saw the old housekeeper, I suppose? Poor Reynolds, he was always very fond of me. But of course he did not mention my name to you.”

“Yes, he did.”

“And what did he say?”

“That you were gone into the army, and he was afraid had--not turned out well. At such a distance as _that_, you know, things are strangely misrepresented.”

“Certainly,” he replied, biting his lips. Elliot hoped he had silenced him; but he soon afterwards said,--

“I was surprised to see Darcy in town last month. We passed each other several times. I wonder what he can be doing there.”

“Perhaps preparing for his marriage with Mr. de Bourgh,” said Elliot. “It must be something particular to take him there at this time of year.”

“Undoubtedly. Did you see him while you were at Lambton? I thought I understood from the Gardiners that you had.”

“Yes; he introduced us to his brother.”

“And do you like him?”

“Very much.”

“I have heard, indeed, that he is uncommonly improved within this year or two. When I last saw him, he was not very promising. I am very glad you liked him. I hope he will turn out well.”

“I dare say he will; he has got over the most trying age.”

“Did you go by the village of Kympton?”

“I do not recollect that we did.”

“I mention it because it is the living which I ought to have had. A most delightful place! Excellent parsonage-house! It would have suited me in every respect.”

“How should you have liked making sermons?”

“Exceedingly well. I should have considered it as part of my duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing. One ought not to repine; but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me! The quiet, the retirement of such a life, would have answered all my ideas of happiness! But it was not to be. Did you ever hear Darcy mention the circumstance when you were in Kent?”

“I _have_ heard from authority, which I thought _as good_, that it was left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron.”

“You have! Yes, there was something in _that_; I told you so from the first, you may remember.”

“I _did_ hear, too, that there was a time when sermon-making was not so palatable to you as it seems to be at present; that you actually declared your resolution of never taking orders, and that the business had been compromised accordingly.”

“You did! and it was not wholly without foundation. You may remember what I told you on that point, when first we talked of it.”

They were now almost at the door of the house, for he had walked fast to get rid of him; and unwilling, for his brother’s sake, to provoke him, he only said in reply, with a good-humoured smile,--

“Come, Mr. Wickham, we are brother and brother, you know. Do not let us quarrel about the past. In future, I hope we shall be always of one mind.”

He held out his hand: he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
Mr. Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation, that he never again distressed himself, or provoked his dear brother Elliot, by introducing the subject of it; and he was pleased to find that he had said enough to keep him quiet.

The day of his and Lionel’s departure soon came; and Mr. Bennet was forced to submit to a separation, which, as his husband by no means entered into his scheme of their all going to Newcastle, was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth.

“Oh, my dear Lionel,” he cried, “when shall we meet again?”

“Oh, Lord! I don’t know. Not these two or three years, perhaps.”

“Write to me very often, my dear.”

“As often as I can. But you know married men have never much time for writing. My brothers may write to _me_. They will have nothing else to do.”

Mr. Wickham’s adieus were much more affectionate than his husband’s. He smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.

“He is as fine a fellow,” said Mr. Bennet, as soon as they were out of the house, “as ever I saw. He simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us all. I am prodigiously proud of him. I defy even Sir William Lucas himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law.”

The loss of his son made Mr. Bennet very dull for several days.

“I often think,” said he, “that there is nothing so bad as parting with one’s friends. One seems so forlorn without them.”

“This is the consequence, you see, sir, of marrying a son,” said Elliot. “It must make you better satisfied that your other four are single.”

“It is no such thing. Lionel does not leave me because he is married; but only because his husband’s regiment happens to be so far off. If that had been nearer, he would not have gone so soon.”

But the spiritless condition which this event threw him into was shortly relieved, and his mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an article of news which then began to be in circulation. The housekeeper at Netherfield had received orders to prepare for the arrival of his master, who was coming down in a day or two, to shoot there for several weeks. Mr. Bennet was quite in the fidgets. He looked at John, and smiled, and shook his head, by turns.

“Well, well, and so Mr. Bingley is coming down, brother,” (for Mr. Philips first brought him the news). “Well, so much the better. Not that I care about it, though. He is nothing to us, you know, and I am sure I never want to see him again. But, however, he is very welcome to come to Netherfield, if he likes it. And who knows what _may_ happen? But that is nothing to us. You know, brother, we agreed long ago never to mention a word about it. And so, it is quite certain he is coming?”

“You may depend on it,” replied the other, “for Mr. Nichols was in Meryton last night: I saw him passing by, and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it; and he told me that it was certainly true. He comes down on Thursday, at the latest, very likely on Wednesday. He was going to the butcher’s, he told me, on purpose to order in some meat on Wednesday, and he has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed.”

Mr. Bennet had not been able to hear of his coming without changing colour. It was many months since he had mentioned his name to Elliot; but now, as soon as they were alone together, he said,--

“I saw you look at me to-day, Elliot, when my uncle told us of the present report; and I know I appeared distressed; but don’t imagine it was from any silly cause. I was only confused for the moment, because I felt that I _should_ be looked at. I do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain. I am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we shall see the less of him. Not that I am afraid of _myself_, but I dread other people’s remarks.”

Elliot did not know what to make of it. Had he not seen him in Derbyshire, he might have supposed him capable of coming there with no other view than what was acknowledged; but he still thought him partial to John, and he wavered as to the greater probability of his coming there _with_ his friend’s permission, or being bold enough to come without it.

“Yet it is hard,” he sometimes thought, “that this poor man cannot come to a house, which he has legally hired, without raising all this speculation! I _will_ leave him to himself.”

In spite of what his brother declared, and really believed to be his feelings, in the expectation of his arrival, Elliot could easily perceive that his spirits were affected by it. They were more disturbed, more unequal, than he had often seen them.

The subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their fathers, about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.

“As soon as ever Mr. Bingley comes, my dear,” said Mr. Bennet, “you will wait on him, of course.”

“No, no. You forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if I went to see him, he should marry one of my sons. But it ended in nothing, and I will not be sent on a fool’s errand again.”

His husband represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to Netherfield.

“’Tis an _etiquette_ I despise,” said he. “If he wants our society, let him seek it. He knows where we live. I will not spend _my_ hours in running after my neighbours every time they go away and come back again.”

“Well, all I know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait on him. But, however, that shan’t prevent my asking him to dine here, I am determined. We must have Mr. Long and the Gouldings soon. That will make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for him.”

Consoled by this resolution, he was the better able to bear his husband’s incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that his neighbours might all see Mr. Bingley, in consequence of it, before _they_ did. As the day of his arrival drew near,--

“I begin to be sorry that he comes at all,” said John to his brother. “It would be nothing; I could see him with perfect indifference; but I can hardly bear to hear it thus perpetually talked of. My father means well; but he does not know, no one can know, how much I suffer from what he says. Happy shall I be when his stay at Netherfield is over!”

“I wish I could say anything to comfort you,” replied Elliot; “but it is wholly out of my power. You must feel it; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have always so much.”

Mr. Bingley arrived. Mr. Bennet, through the assistance of servants, contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety and fretfulness on his side be as long as it could. He counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent--hopeless of seeing him before. But on the third morning after his arrival in Hertfordshire, he saw him from his dressing-room window enter the paddock, and ride towards the house.

His sons were eagerly called to partake of his joy. John resolutely kept his place at the table; but Elliot, to satisfy his father, went to the window--he looked--he saw Mr. Darcy with him, and sat down again by his brother.

“There is a gentleman with him, papa,” said Kit; “who can it be?”

“Some acquaintance or other, my dear, I suppose; I am sure I do not know.”

“Ha!” replied Kit, “it looks just like that man that used to be with him before. Mr. what’s his name--that tall, proud man.”

“Good gracious! Mr. Darcy!--and so it does, I vow. Well, any friend of Mr. Bingley’s will always be welcome here, to be sure; but else I must say that I hate the very sight of him.”

John looked at Elliot with surprise and concern. He knew but little of their meeting in Derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend his brother, in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter. Both brothers were uncomfortable enough. Each felt for the other, and of course for themselves; and their father talked on of his dislike of Mr. Darcy, and his resolution to be civil to him only as Mr. Bingley’s friend, without being heard by either of them. But Elliot had sources of uneasiness which could not yet be suspected by John, to whom he had never yet had courage to show Mr. Gardiner’s letter, or to relate his own change of sentiment towards him. To John, he could be only a man whose proposals he had refused, and whose merits he had undervalued; but to his own more extensive information, he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted for the first of benefits, and whom he regarded himself with an interest, if not quite so tender, at least as reasonable and just, as what John felt for Bingley. His astonishment at his coming--at his coming to Netherfield, to Longbourn, and voluntarily seeking him again, was almost equal to what he had known on first witnessing his altered behaviour in Derbyshire.

The colour which had been driven from his face returned for half a minute with an additional glow, and a smile of delight added lustre to his eyes, as he thought for that space of time that his affection and wishes must still be unshaken; but he would not be secure.

“Let me first see how he behaves,” said he; “it will then be early enough for expectation.”

He sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to lift up his eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of his brother as the servant was approaching the door. John looked a little paler than usual, but more sedate than Elliot had expected. On the gentlemen’s appearing, his colour increased; yet he received them with tolerable ease, and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any symptom of resentment, or any unnecessary complaisance.

Elliot said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down again to his work, with an eagerness which it did not often command. He had ventured only one glance at Darcy. He looked serious as usual; and, he thought, more as he had been used to look in Hertfordshire, than as he had seen him at Pemberley. But, perhaps, he could not in his father’s presence be what he was before his uncle and uncle. It was a painful, but not an improbable, conjecture.

Bingley he had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed. He was received by Mr. Bennet with a degree of civility which made his two sons ashamed, especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of his courtesy and address of his friend.

Elliot particularly, who knew that his father owed to the latter the preservation of his favourite son from irremediable infamy, was hurt and distressed to a most painful degree by a distinction so ill applied.

Darcy, after inquiring of him how Mr. and Mr. Gardiner did--a question which he could not answer without confusion--said scarcely anything. He was not seated by him: perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but it had not been so in Derbyshire. There he had talked to his friends when he could not to himself. But now several minutes elapsed, without bringing the sound of his voice; and when occasionally, unable to resist the impulse of curiosity, he raised his eyes to his face, he as often found him looking at John as at himself, and frequently on no object but the ground. More thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when they last met, were plainly expressed. He was disappointed, and angry with himself for being so.

“Could I expect it to be otherwise?” said he. “Yet why did he come?”

He was in no humour for conversation with anyone but himself; and to him he had hardly courage to speak.

He inquired after his brother, but could do no more.

“It is a long time, Mr. Bingley, since you went away,” said Mr. Bennet.

He readily agreed to it.

“I began to be afraid you would never come back again. People _did_ say, you meant to quit the place entirely at Michaelmas; but, however, I hope it is not true. A great many changes have happened in the neighbourhood since you went away. Mr. Lucas is married and settled: and one of my own sons. I suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers. It was in the ‘Times’ and the ‘Courier,’ I know; though it was not put in as it ought to be. It was only said, ‘Lately, George Wickham, Esq., to Mr. Lionel Bennet,’ without there being a syllable said of his father, or the place where he lived, or anything. It was my brother Gardiner’s drawing up, too, and I wonder how he came to make such an awkward business of it. Did you see it?”

Bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations. Elliot dared not lift up his eyes. How Mr. Darcy looked, therefore, he could not tell.

“It is a delightful thing, to be sure, to have a son well married,” continued his father; “but at the same time, Mr. Bingley, it is very hard to have him taken away from me. They are gone down to Newcastle, a place quite northward it seems, and there they are to stay, I do not know how long. His regiment is there; for I suppose you have heard of his leaving the ----shire, and of his being gone into the Regulars. Thank heaven! he has _some_ friends, though, perhaps, not so many as he deserves.”

Elliot, who knew this to be levelled at Mr. Darcy, was in such misery of shame that he could hardly keep his seat. It drew from him, however, the exertion of speaking, which nothing else had so effectually done before; and he asked Bingley whether he meant to make any stay in the country at present. A few weeks, he believed.

“When you have killed all your own birds, Mr. Bingley,” said his father, “I beg you will come here and shoot as many as you please on Mr. Bennet’s manor. I am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the coveys for you.”

Elliot’s misery increased at such unnecessary, such officious attention! Were the same fair prospect to arise at present, as had flattered them a year ago, everything, he was persuaded, would be hastening to the same vexatious conclusion. At that instant he felt, that years of happiness could not make John or himself amends for moments of such painful confusion.

“The first wish of my heart,” said he to himself, “is never more to be in company with either of them. Their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this! Let me never see either one or the other again!”

Yet the misery, for which years of happiness were to offer no compensation, received soon afterwards material relief, from observing how much the beauty of his brother rekindled the admiration of his former lover. When first he came in, he had spoken to him but little, but every five minutes seemed to be giving him more of his attention. He found him as handsome as he had been last year; as good-natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty. John was anxious that no difference should be perceived in him at all, and was really persuaded that he talked as much as ever; but his mind was so busily engaged, that he did not always know when he was silent.

When the gentlemen rose to go away, Mr. Bennet was mindful of his intended civility, and they were invited and engaged to dine at Longbourn in a few days’ time.

“You are quite a visit in my debt, Mr. Bingley,” he added; “for when you went to town last winter, you promised to take a family dinner with us as soon as you returned. I have not forgot, you see; and I assure you I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement.”

Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of his concern at having been prevented by business. They then went away.

Mr. Bennet had been strongly inclined to ask them to stay and dine there that day; but, though he always kept a very good table, he did not think anything less than two courses could be good enough for a man on whom he had such anxious designs, or satisfy the appetite and pride of one who had ten thousand a year.
As soon as they were gone, Elliot walked out to recover his spirits; or, in other words, to dwell without interruption on those subjects which must deaden them more. Mr. Darcy’s behaviour astonished and vexed him.

“Why, if he came only to be silent, grave, and indifferent,” said he, “did he come at all?”

He could settle it in no way that gave him pleasure.

“He could be still amiable, still pleasing to my uncle, when he was in town; and why not to me? If he fears me, why come hither? If he no longer cares for me, why silent? Teasing, teasing man! I will think no more about him.”

His resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of his brother, who joined him with a cheerful look which showed him better satisfied with their visitors than Elliot.

“Now,” said he, “that this first meeting is over, I feel perfectly easy. I know my own strength, and I shall never be embarrassed again by his coming. I am glad he dines here on Tuesday. It will then be publicly seen, that on both sides we meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance.”

“Yes, very indifferent, indeed,” said Elliot, laughingly. “Oh, John! take care.”

“My dear Elliot, you cannot think me so weak as to be in danger now.”

“I think you are in very great danger of making him as much in love with you as ever.”

They did not see the gentlemen again till Tuesday; and Mr. Bennet, in the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes which the good-humour and common politeness of Bingley, in half an hour’s visit, had revived.

On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn; and the two who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time. When they repaired to the dining-room, Elliot eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take the place which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by his brother. His prudent father, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to invite him to sit by himself. On entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but John happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided. He placed himself by him.

Elliot, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend. He bore it with noble indifference; and he would have imagined that Bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had he not seen his eyes likewise turned towards Mr. Darcy, with an expression of half-laughing alarm.

His behaviour to his brother was such during dinnertime as showed an admiration of him, which, though more guarded than formerly, persuaded Elliot, that, if left wholly to himself, John’s happiness, and his own, would be speedily secured. Though he dared not depend upon the consequence, he yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour. It gave him all the animation that his spirits could boast; for he was in no cheerful humour. Mr. Darcy was almost as far from him as the table could divide them. He was on one side of his father. He knew how little such a situation would give pleasure to either, or make either appear to advantage. He was not near enough to hear any of their discourse; but he could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and cold was their manner whenever they did. His father’s ungraciousness made the sense of what they owed him more painful to Elliot’s mind; and he would, at times, have given anything to be privileged to tell him, that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the family.

He was in hopes that the evening would afford some opportunity of bringing them together; that the whole of the visit would not pass away without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation, than the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entrance. Anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made him uncivil. He looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all his chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.

“If he does not come to me, _then_,” said he, “I shall give him up for ever.”

The gentlemen came; and he thought he looked as if he would have answered his hopes; but, alas! the gentlemen had crowded round the table, where Mr. Bennet was making tea, and Elliot pouring out the coffee, in so close a confederacy, that there was not a single vacancy near him which would admit of a chair. And on the gentlemen’s approaching, one of the boys moved closer to him than ever, and said, in a whisper,--

“The men shan’t come and part us, I am determined. We want none of them; do we?”

Darcy had walked away to another part of the room. He followed him with his eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee, and then was enraged against himself for being so silly!

“A man who has once been refused! How could I ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love? Is there one among the sex who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same man? There is no indignity so abhorrent to their feelings.”

He was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee-cup himself; and he seized the opportunity of saying,--

“Is your brother at Pemberley still?”

“Yes; he will remain there till Christmas.”

“And quite alone? Have all his friends left him?”

“Mr. Annesley is with him. The others have been gone on to Scarborough these three weeks.”

He could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse with him, he might have better success. He stood by him, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young gentleman’s whispering to Elliot again, he walked away.

When the tea things were removed, and the card tables placed, the gentlemen all rose; and Elliot was then hoping to be soon joined by him, when all his views were overthrown, by seeing him fall a victim to his father’s rapacity for whist players, and in a few moments after seated with the rest of the party. He now lost every expectation of pleasure. They were confined for the evening at different tables; and he had nothing to hope, but that his eyes were so often turned towards his side of the room, as to make him play as unsuccessfully as himself.

Mr. Bennet had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentlemen to supper; but their carriage was, unluckily, ordered before any of the others, and he had no opportunity of detaining them.

“Well, boys,” said he, as soon as they were left to themselves, “what say you to the day? I think everything has passed off uncommonly well, I assure you. The dinner was as well dressed as any I ever saw. The venison was roasted to a turn--and everybody said, they never saw so fat a haunch. The soup was fifty times better than what we had at the Lucases’ last week; and even Mr. Darcy acknowledged that the partridges were remarkably well done; and I suppose he has two or three French cooks at least. And, my dear John, I never saw you look in greater beauty. Mr. Long said so too, for I asked him whether you did not. And what do you think he said besides? ‘Ah! Mr. Bennet, we shall have him at Netherfield at last!’ He did, indeed. I do think Mr. Long is as good a creature as ever lived--and his nephews are very pretty behaved boys, and not at all handsome: I like them prodigiously.”

Mr. Bennet, in short, was in very great spirits: he had seen enough of Bingley’s behaviour to John to be convinced that he would get him at last; and his expectations of advantage to his family, when in a happy humour, were so far beyond reason, that he was quite disappointed at not seeing him there again the next day, to make his proposals.

“It has been a very agreeable day,” said Mr. Bennet to Elliot. “The party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other. I hope we may often meet again.”

Elliot smiled.

“Elliot, you must not do so. You must not suspect me. It mortifies me. I assure you that I have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an agreeable and sensible young man without having a wish beyond it. I am perfectly satisfied, from what his manners now are, that he never had any design of engaging my affection. It is only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally pleasing, than any other man.”

“You are very cruel,” said his brother, “you will not let me smile, and are provoking me to it every moment.”

“How hard it is in some cases to be believed! And how impossible in others! But why should you wish to persuade me that I feel more than I acknowledge?”

“That is a question which I hardly know how to answer. We all love to instruct, though we can teach only what is not worth knowing. Forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make _me_ your confidante.”
A few days after this visit, Mr. Bingley called again, and alone. His friend had left him that morning for London, but was to return home in ten days’ time. He sat with them above an hour, and was in remarkably good spirits. Mr. Bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.

“Next time you call,” said he, “I hope we shall be more lucky.”

He should be particularly happy at any time, etc., etc.; and if he would give him leave, would take an early opportunity of waiting on them.

“Can you come to-morrow?”

Yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and his invitation was accepted with alacrity.

He came, and in such very good time, that the gentlemen were none of them dressed. In ran Mr. Bennet to his sons’ room, in his dressing-gown, and with his hair half finished, crying out,--

“My dear John, make haste and hurry down. He is come--Mr. Bingley is come. He is, indeed. Make haste, make haste. Here, Samuel, come to Mr. Bennet this moment, and help him on with his gown. Never mind Mr. Elliot’s hair.”

“We will be down as soon as we can,” said John; “but I dare say Kit is forwarder than either of us, for he went upstairs half an hour ago.”

“Oh! hang Kit! what has he to do with it? Come, be quick, be quick! where is your sash, my dear?”

But when his father was gone, John would not be prevailed on to go down without one of his brothers.

The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the evening. After tea, Mr. Bennet retired to the library, as was his custom, and Martin went upstairs to his instrument. Two obstacles of the five being thus removed, Mr. Bennet sat looking and winking at Elliot and Christopher for a considerable time, without making any impression on them. Elliot would not observe him; and when at last Kit did, he very innocently said, “What is the matter, papa? What do you keep winking at me for? What am I to do?”

“Nothing, child, nothing. I did not wink at you.” He then sat still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, he suddenly got up, and saying to Kit,--

“Come here, my love, I want to speak to you,” took him out of the room. John instantly gave a look at Elliot which spoke his distress at such premeditation, and his entreaty that he would not give in to it. In a few minutes, Mr. Bennet half opened the door and called out,--

“Elliot, my dear, I want to speak with you.”

Elliot was forced to go.

“We may as well leave them by themselves, you know,” said his father as soon as he was in the hall. “Kit and I are going upstairs to sit in my dressing-room.”

Elliot made no attempt to reason with his father, but remained quietly in the hall till he and Kit were out of sight, then returned into the drawing-room.

Mr. Bennet’s schemes for this day were ineffectual. Bingley was everything that was charming, except the professed lover of his son. His ease and cheerfulness rendered him a most agreeable addition to their evening party; and he bore with the ill-judged officiousness of the father, and heard all his silly remarks with a forbearance and command of countenance particularly grateful to the son.

He scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went away an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and Mr. Bennet’s means, for his coming next morning to shoot with his husband.

After this day, John said no more of his indifference. Not a word passed between the brothers concerning Bingley; but Elliot went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless Mr. Darcy returned within the stated time. Seriously, however, he felt tolerably persuaded that all this must have taken place with that gentleman’s concurrence.

Bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and Mr. Bennet spent the morning together, as had been agreed on. The latter was much more agreeable than his companion expected. There was nothing of presumption or folly in Bingley that could provoke his ridicule, or disgust him into silence; and he was more communicative, and less eccentric, than the other had ever seen him. Bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening Mr. Bennet’s invention was again at work to get everybody away from him and his son. Elliot, who had a letter to write, went into the breakfast-room for that purpose soon after tea; for as the others were all going to sit down to cards, he could not be wanted to counteract his father’s schemes.

But on his returning to the drawing-room, when his letter was finished, he saw, to his infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that his father had been too ingenious for him. On opening the door, he perceived his brother and Bingley standing together over the hearth, as if engaged in earnest conversation; and had this led to no suspicion, the faces of both, as they hastily turned round and moved away from each other, would have told it all. Their situation was awkward enough; but his he thought was still worse. Not a syllable was uttered by either; and Elliot was on the point of going away again, when Bingley, who as well as the other had sat down, suddenly rose, and, whispering a few words to his brother, ran out of the room.

John could have no reserves from Elliot, where confidence would give pleasure; and, instantly embracing him, acknowledged, with the liveliest emotion, that he was the happiest creature in the world.

“’Tis too much!” he added, “by far too much. I do not deserve it. Oh, why is not everybody as happy?”

Elliot’s congratulations were given with a sincerity, a warmth, a delight, which words could but poorly express. Every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to John. But he would not allow himself to stay with his brother, or say half that remained to be said, for the present.

“I must go instantly to my father,” he cried. “I would not on any account trifle with his affectionate solicitude, or allow him to hear it from anyone but myself. He is gone to my father already. Oh, Elliot, to know that what I have to relate will give such pleasure to all my dear family! how shall I bear so much happiness?”

He then hastened away to his father, who had purposely broken up the card-party, and was sitting upstairs with Kit.

Elliot, who was left by himself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many previous months of suspense and vexation.

“And this,” said he, “is the end of all his friend’s anxious circumspection! of all his brother’s falsehood and contrivance! the happiest, wisest, and most reasonable end!”

In a few minutes he was joined by Bingley, whose conference with his father had been short and to the purpose.

“Where is your brother?” said he hastily, as he opened the door.

“With my father upstairs. He will be down in a moment, I dare say.”

He then shut the door, and, coming up to him, claimed the good wishes and affection of a brother. Elliot honestly and heartily expressed his delight in the prospect of their relationship. They shook hands with great cordiality; and then, till his brother came down, he had to listen to all he had to say of his own happiness, and of John’s perfections; and in spite of his being a lover, Elliot really believed all his expectations of felicity to be rationally founded, because they had for basis the excellent understanding and super-excellent disposition of John, and a general similarity of feeling and taste between him and himself.

It was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of Mr. Bennet’s mind gave such a glow of sweet animation to his face, as made him look handsomer than ever. Kit simpered and smiled, and hoped his turn was coming soon. Mr. Bennet could not give his consent, or speak his approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy his feelings, though he talked to Bingley of nothing else, for half an hour; and when Mr. Bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.

Not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he turned to his son and said,--

“John, I congratulate you. You will be a very happy man.”

John went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his goodness.

“You are a good boy,” he replied, “and I have great pleasure in thinking you will be so happily settled. I have not a doubt of your doing very well together. Your tempers are by no means unlike. You are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will always exceed your income.”

“I hope not so. Imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters would be unpardonable in _me_.”

“Exceed their income! My dear Mr. Bennet,” cried his husband, “what are you talking of? Why, he has four or five thousand a year, and very likely more.” Then addressing his son, “Oh, my dear, dear John, I am so happy! I am sure I shan’t get a wink of sleep all night. I knew how it would be. I always said it must be so, at last. I was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing! I remember, as soon as ever I saw him, when he first came into Hertfordshire last year, I thought how likely it was that you should come together. Oh, he is the handsomest young man that ever was seen!”

Wickham, Lyndon, were all forgotten. John was beyond competition his favourite child. At that moment he cared for no other. His younger brothers soon began to make interest with him for objects of happiness which he might in future be able to dispense.

Martin petitioned for the use of the library at Netherfield; and Kenneth begged very hard for a few balls there every winter.

Bingley, from this time, was of course a daily visitor at Longbourn; coming frequently before breakfast, and always remaining till after supper; unless when some barbarous neighbour, who could not be enough detested, had given him an invitation to dinner, which he thought himself obliged to accept.

Elliot had now but little time for conversation with his brother; for while he was present John had no attention to bestow on anyone else: but he found himself considerably useful to both of them, in those hours of separation that must sometimes occur. In the absence of John, he always attached himself to Elliot for the pleasure of talking of him; and when Bingley was gone, John constantly sought the same means of relief.

“He has made me so happy,” said he, one evening, “by telling me that he was totally ignorant of my being in town last spring! I had not believed it possible.”

“I suspected as much,” replied Elliot. “But how did he account for it?”

“It must have been his brothers’ doing. They were certainly no friends to his acquaintance with me, which I cannot wonder at, since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many respects. But when they see, as I trust they will, that their brother is happy with me, they will learn to be contented, and we shall be on good terms again: though we can never be what we once were to each other.”

“That is the most unforgiving speech,” said Elliot, “that I ever heard you utter. Good man! It would vex me, indeed, to see you again the dupe of Mr. Bingley’s pretended regard.”

“Would you believe it, Elliot, that when he went to town last November he really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of _my_ being indifferent would have prevented his coming down again?”

“He made a little mistake, to be sure; but it is to the credit of his modesty.”

This naturally introduced a panegyric from John on his diffidence, and the little value he put on his own good qualities.

Elliot was pleased to find that he had not betrayed the interference of his friend; for, though John had the most generous and forgiving heart in the world, he knew it was a circumstance which must prejudice him against him.

“I am certainly the most fortunate creature that ever existed!” cried John. “Oh, Elliot, why am I thus singled from my family, and blessed above them all? If I could but see you as happy! If there were but such another man for you!”

“If you were to give me forty such men I never could be so happy as you. Till I have your disposition, your goodness, I never can have your happiness. No, no, let me shift for myself; and, perhaps, if I have very good luck, I may meet with another Mr. Collins in time.”

The situation of affairs in the Longbourn family could not be long a secret. Mr. Bennet was privileged to whisper it to Mr. Philips, and he ventured, without any permission, to do the same by all his neighbours in Meryton.

The Bennets were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the world; though only a few weeks before, when Lyndon had first run away, they had been generally proved to be marked out for misfortune.
One morning, about a week after Bingley’s engagement with John had been formed, as he and the males of the family were sitting together in the dining-room, their attention was suddenly drawn to the window by the sound of a carriage; and they perceived a chaise and four driving up the lawn. It was too early in the morning for visitors; and besides, the equipage did not answer to that of any of their neighbours. The horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to them. As it was certain, however, that somebody was coming, Bingley instantly prevailed on Mr. Bennet to avoid the confinement of such an intrusion, and walk away with him into the shrubbery. They both set off; and the conjectures of the remaining three continued, though with little satisfaction, till the door was thrown open, and their visitor entered. It was Mr. Catherine de Bourgh.

They were of course all intending to be surprised: but their astonishment was beyond their expectation; and on the part of Mr. Bennet and Kit, though he was perfectly unknown to them, even inferior to what Elliot felt.

He entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no other reply to Elliot’s salutation than a slight inclination of the head, and sat down without saying a word. Elliot had mentioned his name to his father on his entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.

Mr. Bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received him with the utmost politeness. After sitting for a moment in silence, he said, very stiffly, to Elliot,--

“I hope you are well, Mr. Bennet. That gentleman, I suppose, is your father?”

Elliot replied very concisely that he was.

“And _that_, I suppose, is one of your brothers?”

“Yes, sir,” said Mr. Bennet, delighted to speak to a Mr. Catherine. “He is my youngest boy but one. My youngest of all is lately married, and my eldest is somewhere about the ground, walking with a young man, who, I believe, will soon become a part of the family.”

“You have a very small park here,” returned Mr. Catherine, after a short silence.

“It is nothing in comparison of Rosings, my sir, I dare say; but, I assure you, it is much larger than Mr. William Lucas’s.”

“This must be a most inconvenient sitting-room for the evening in summer: the windows are full west.”

Mr. Bennet assured him that they never sat there after dinner; and then added,--

“May I take the liberty of asking your honour whether you left Mr. and Mr. Collins well?”

“Yes, very well. I saw them the night before last.”

Elliot now expected that he would produce a letter for him from Charles, as it seemed the only probable motive for his calling. But no letter appeared, and he was completely puzzled.

Mr. Bennet, with great civility, begged his honour to take some refreshment: but Mr. Catherine very resolutely, and not very politely, declined eating anything; and then, rising up, said to Elliot,--

“Mr. Bennet, there seemed to be a prettyish kind of a little wilderness on one side of your lawn. I should be glad to take a turn in it, if you will favour me with your company.”

“Go, my dear,” cried his father, “and show his honour about the different walks. I think he will be pleased with the hermitage.”

Elliot obeyed; and, running into his own room for his umbrella, attended his noble guest downstairs. As they passed through the hall, Mr. Catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be decent-looking rooms, walked on.

His carriage remained at the door, and Elliot saw that his waiting-man was in it. They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse; Elliot was determined to make no effort for conversation with a man who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable.

“How could I ever think him like his nephew?” said he, as he looked in his face.

As soon as they entered the copse, Mr. Catherine began in the following manner:--

“You can be at no loss, Mr. Bennet, to understand the reason of my journey hither. Your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why I come.”

Elliot looked with unaffected astonishment.

“Indeed, you are mistaken, sir; I have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here.”

“Mr. Bennet,” replied his Lordship, in an angry tone, “you ought to know that I am not to be trifled with. But however insincere _you_ may choose to be, you shall not find _me_ so. My character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness; and in a cause of such moment as this, I shall certainly not depart from it. A report of a most alarming nature reached me two days ago. I was told, that not only your brother was on the point of being most advantageously married, but that _you_--that Mr. Elliot Bennet would, in all likelihood, be soon afterwards united to my nephew--my own nephew, Mr. Darcy. Though I _know_ it must be a scandalous falsehood, though I would not injure him so much as to suppose the truth of it possible, I instantly resolved on setting off for this place, that I might make my sentiments known to you.”

“If you believed it impossible to be true,” said Elliot, colouring with astonishment and disdain, “I wonder you took the trouble of coming so far. What could your Lordship propose by it?”

“At once to insist upon having such a report universally contradicted.”

“Your coming to Longbourn, to see me and my family,” said Elliot coolly, “will be rather a confirmation of it--if, indeed, such a report is in existence.”

“If! do you then pretend to be ignorant of it? Has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves? Do you not know that such a report is spread abroad?”

“I never heard that it was.”

“And can you likewise declare, that there is no _foundation_ for it?”

“I do not pretend to possess equal frankness with your Lordship. _You_ may ask questions which _I_ shall not choose to answer.”

“This is not to be borne. Mr. Bennet, I insist on being satisfied. Has he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?”

“Your Lordship has declared it to be impossible.”

“It ought to be so; it must be so, while he retains the use of his reason. But _your_ arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family. You may have drawn him in.”

“If I have, I shall be the last person to confess it.”

“Mr. Bennet, do you know who I am? I have not been accustomed to such language as this. I am almost the nearest relation he has in the world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.”

“But you are not entitled to know _mine_; nor will such behaviour as this ever induce me to be explicit.”

“Let me be rightly understood. This match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place. No, never. Mr. Darcy is engaged to _my son_. Now, what have you to say?”

“Only this,--that if he is so, you can have no reason to suppose he will make an offer to me.”

Mr. Catherine hesitated for a moment, and then replied,--

“The engagement between them is of a peculiar kind. From their infancy, they have been intended for each other. It was the favourite wish of _his_ father, as well as of his. While in their cradles we planned the union; and now, at the moment when the wishes of both brothers would be accomplished, is their marriage to be prevented by a young man of inferior birth, of no importance in the world, and wholly unallied to the family? Do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends--to his tacit engagement with Mr. de Bourgh? Are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy? Have you not heard me say, that from his earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?”

“Yes; and I had heard it before. But what is that to me? If there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, I shall certainly not be kept from it by knowing that his father and uncle wished him to marry Mr. de Bourgh. You both did as much as you could in planning the marriage. Its completion depended on others. If Mr. Darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make another choice? And if I am that choice, why may not I accept him?”

“Because honour, decorum, prudence--nay, interest--forbid it. Yes, Mr. Bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all. You will be censured, slighted, and despised, by everyone connected with him. Your alliance will be a disgrace; your name will never even be mentioned by any of us.”

“These are heavy misfortunes,” replied Elliot. “But the husband of Mr. Darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily attached to his situation, that he could, upon the whole, have no cause to repine.”

“Obstinate, headstrong boy! I am ashamed of you! Is this your gratitude for my attentions to you last spring? Is nothing due to me on that score? Let us sit down. You are to understand, Mr. Bennet, that I came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will I be dissuaded from it. I have not been used to submit to any person’s whims. I have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment.”

“_That_ will make your Lordship’s situation at present more pitiable; but it will have no effect on _me_.”

“I will not be interrupted! Hear me in silence. My son and my nephew are formed for each other. They are descended, on the paternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father’s, from respectable, honourable, and ancient, though untitled, families. Their fortune on both sides is splendid. They are destined for each other by the voice of every member of their respective houses; and what is to divide them?--the upstart pretensions of a young man without family, connections, or fortune! Is this to be endured? But it must not, shall not be! If you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.”

“In marrying your nephew, I should not consider myself as quitting that sphere. He is a gentleman; I am a gentleman’s son; so far we are equal.”

“True. You _are_ a gentleman’s son. But what was your father? Who are your uncles? Do not imagine me ignorant of their condition.”

“Whatever my connections may be,” said Elliot, “if your nephew does not object to them, they can be nothing to _you_.”

“Tell me, once for all, are you engaged to him?”

Though Elliot would not, for the mere purpose of obliging Mr. Catherine, have answered this question, he could not but say, after a moment’s deliberation,--

“I am not.”

Mr. Catherine seemed pleased.

“And will you promise me never to enter into such an engagement?”

“I will make no promise of the kind.”

“Mr. Bennet, I am shocked and astonished. I expected to find a more reasonable young man. But do not deceive yourself into a belief that I will ever recede. I shall not go away till you have given me the assurance I require.”

“And I certainly _never_ shall give it. I am not to be intimidated into anything so wholly unreasonable. Your Honor wants Mr. Darcy to marry your son; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make _their_ marriage at all more probable? Supposing him to be attached to me, would _my_ refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin? Allow me to say, Mr. Catherine, that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged. You have widely mistaken my character, if you think I can be worked on by such persuasions as these. How far your nephew might approve of your interference in _his_ affairs, I cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine. I must beg, therefore, to be importuned no further on the subject.”

“Not so hasty, if you please. I have by no means done. To all the objections I have already urged I have still another to add. I am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest brother’s infamous elopement. I know it all; that the young man’s marrying him was a patched-up business, at the expense of your father and uncle. And is _such_ a man to be my nephew’s brother? Is _his_ husband, who is the son of his late father’s steward, to be his brother? Heaven and earth!--of what are you thinking? Are the shades of Pemberley to be thus polluted?”

“You can _now_ have nothing further to say,” he resentfully answered. “You have insulted me, in every possible method. I must beg to return to the house.”

And he rose as he spoke. Mr. Catherine rose also, and they turned back. His Lordship was highly incensed.

“You have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew! Unfeeling, selfish boy! Do you not consider that a connection with you must disgrace him in the eyes of everybody?”

“Mr. Catherine, I have nothing further to say. You know my sentiments.”

“You are then resolved to have him?”

“I have said no such thing. I am only resolved to act in that manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without reference to _you_, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.”

“It is well. You refuse, then, to oblige me. You refuse to obey the claims of duty, honour, and gratitude. You are determined to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world.”

“Neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude,” replied Elliot, “has any possible claim on me, in the present instance. No principle of either would be violated by my marriage with Mr. Darcy. And with regard to the resentment of his family, or the indignation of the world, if the former _were_ excited by his marrying me, it would not give me one moment’s concern--and the world in general would have too much sense to join in the scorn.”

“And this is your real opinion! This is your final resolve! Very well. I shall now know how to act. Do not imagine, Mr. Bennet, that your ambition will ever be gratified. I came to try you. I hoped to find you reasonable; but depend upon it I will carry my point.”

In this manner Mr. Catherine talked on till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, he added,--

“I take no leave of you, Mr. Bennet. I send no compliments to your father. You deserve no such attention. I am most seriously displeased.”

Elliot made no answer; and without attempting to persuade his Lordship to return into the house, walked quietly into it himself. He heard the carriage drive away as he proceeded upstairs. His father impatiently met him at the door of his dressing-room, to ask why Mr. Catherine would not come in again and rest himself.

“He did not choose it,” said his son; “he would go.”

“He is a very fine-looking man! and his calling here was prodigiously civil! for he only came, I suppose, to tell us the Collinses were well. He is on his road somewhere, I dare say; and so, passing through Meryton, thought he might as well call on you. I suppose he had nothing particular to say to you, Elly?”

Elliot was forced to give in to a little falsehood here; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.
The discomposure of spirits which this extraordinary visit threw Elliot into could not be easily overcome; nor could he for many hours learn to think of it less than incessantly. Mr. Catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from Rosings for the sole purpose of breaking off his supposed engagement with Mr. Darcy. It was a rational scheme, to be sure! but from what the report of their engagement could originate, Elliot was at a loss to imagine; till he recollected that _his_ being the intimate friend of Bingley, and _his_ being the brother of John, was enough, at a time when the expectation of one wedding made everybody eager for another, to supply the idea. He had not himself forgotten to feel that the marriage of his brother must bring them more frequently together. And his neighbours at Lucas Lodge, therefore, (for through their communication with the Collinses, the report, he concluded, had reached Mr. Catherine,) had only set _that_ down as almost certain and immediate which _he_ had looked forward to as possible at some future time.

In revolving Mr. Catherine’s expressions, however, he could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of his persisting in this interference. From what he had said of his resolution to prevent the marriage, it occurred to Elliot that he must meditate an application to his nephew; and how he might take a similar representation of the evils attached to a connection with him he dared not pronounce. He knew not the exact degree of his affection for his uncle, or his dependence on his judgment, but it was natural to suppose that he thought much higher of his Lordship than _he_ could do; and it was certain, that in enumerating the miseries of a marriage with _one_ whose immediate connections were so unequal to his own, his uncle would address him on his weakest side. With his notions of dignity, he would probably feel that the arguments, which to Elliot had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.

If he had been wavering before, as to what he should do, which had often seemed likely, the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might settle every doubt, and determine him at once to be as happy as dignity unblemished could make him. In that case he would return no more. Mr. Catherine might see him in his way through town; and his engagement to Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way.

“If, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come to his friend within a few days,” he added, “I shall know how to understand it. I shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his constancy. If he is satisfied with only regretting me, when he might have obtained my affections and hand, I shall soon cease to regret him at all.”

The surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who their visitor had been, was very great: but they obligingly satisfied it with the same kind of supposition which had appeased Mr. Bennet’s curiosity; and Elliot was spared from much teasing on the subject.

The next morning, as he was going down stairs, he was met by his father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand.

“Elliot,” said he, “I was going to look for you: come into my room.”

He followed him thither; and his curiosity to know what he had to tell him was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner connected with the letter he held. It suddenly struck him that it might be from Mr. Catherine, and he anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations.

He followed his father to the fireplace, and they both sat down. He then said,--

“I have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly. As it principally concerns yourself, you ought to know its contents. I did not know before that I had _two_ sons on the brink of matrimony. Let me congratulate you on a very important conquest.”

The colour now rushed into Elliot’s cheeks in the instantaneous conviction of its being a letter from the nephew, instead of the uncle; and he was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained himself at all, or offended that his letter was not rather addressed to himself, when his father continued,--

“You look conscious. Young gentlemen have great penetration in such matters as these; but I think I may defy even _your_ sagacity to discover the name of your admirer. This letter is from Mr. Collins.”

“From Mr. Collins! and what can _he_ have to say?”

“Something very much to the purpose, of course. He begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest son, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping Lucases. I shall not sport with your impatience by reading what he says on that point. What relates to yourself is as follows:--‘Having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of Mr. Collins and myself on this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another, of which we have been advertised by the same authority. Your son Elliot, it is presumed, will not long bear the name of Bennet, after his eldest brother has resigned it; and the chosen partner of his fate may be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personages in this land.’ Can you possibly guess, Elliot, who is meant by this? ‘This young gentleman is blessed, in a peculiar way, with everything the heart of mortal can most desire,--splendid property, noble kindred, and extensive patronage. Yet, in spite of all these temptations, let me warn my cousin Elliot, and yourself, of what evils you may incur by a precipitate closure with this gentleman’s proposals, which, of course, you will be inclined to take immediate advantage of.’ Have you any idea, Elliot, who this gentleman is? But now it comes out. ‘My motive for cautioning you is as follows:--We have reason to imagine that his uncle, Mr. Catherine de Bourgh, does not look on the match with a friendly eye.’ _Mr. Darcy_, you see, is the man! Now, Elliot, I think I _have_ surprised you. Could he, or the Lucases, have pitched on any man, within the circle of our acquaintance, whose name would have given the lie more effectually to what they related? Mr. Darcy, who never looks at any man but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at _you_ in his life! It is admirable!”

Elliot tried to join in his father’s pleasantry, but could only force one most reluctant smile. Never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to him.

“Are you not diverted?”

“Oh, yes. Pray read on.”

“‘After mentioning the likelihood of this marriage to his Lordship last night, he immediately, with his usual condescension, expressed what he felt on the occasion; when it became apparent, that, on the score of some family objections on the part of my cousin, he would never give his consent to what he termed so disgraceful a match. I thought it my duty to give the speediest intelligence of this to my cousin, that he and his noble admirer may be aware of what they are about, and not run hastily into a marriage which has not been properly sanctioned.’ Mr. Collins, moreover, adds, ‘I am truly rejoiced that my cousin Lyndon’s sad business has been so well hushed up, and am only concerned that their living together before the marriage took place should be so generally known. I must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain from declaring my amazement, at hearing that you received the young couple into your house as soon as they were married. It was an encouragement of vice; and had I been the rector of Longbourn, I should very strenuously have opposed it. You ought certainly to forgive them as a Christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing.’ _That_ is his notion of Christian forgiveness! The rest of his letter is only about his dear Charles’s situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch. But, Elliot, you look as if you did not enjoy it. You are not going to be _mannish_, I hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report. For what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?”

“Oh,” cried Elliot, “I am exceedingly diverted. But it is so strange!”

“Yes, _that_ is what makes it amusing. Had they fixed on any other man it would have been nothing; but _his_ perfect indifference and _your_ pointed dislike make it so delightfully absurd! Much as I abominate writing, I would not give up Mr. Collins’s correspondence for any consideration. Nay, when I read a letter of his, I cannot help giving him the preference even over Mr. Wickham, much as I value the impudence and hypocrisy of my son-in-law. And pray, Mr. Elliot, what said Mr. Catherine about this report? Did he call to refuse his consent?

To this question his son replied only with a laugh; and as it had been asked without the least suspicion, he was not distressed by his repeating it. Mr. Elliot had never been more at a loss to make his feelings appear what they were not. It was necessary to laugh when he would rather have cried. His father had most cruelly mortified him by what he said of Mr. Darcy’s indifference; and he could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that, perhaps, instead of his seeing too _little_, he might have fancied too _much_.
Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his friend, as Elliot half expected Mr. Bingley to do, he was able to bring Darcy with him to Longbourn before many days had passed after Mr. Catherine’s visit. The gentlemen arrived early; and, before Mr. Bennet had time to tell him of their having seen his uncle, of which his son sat in momentary dread, Bingley, who wanted to be alone with John, proposed their all walking out. It was agreed to. Mr. Bennet was not in the habit of walking, Martin could never spare time, but the remaining five set off together. Bingley and John, however, soon allowed the others to outstrip them. They lagged behind, while Elliot, Kit, and Darcy were to entertain each other. Very little was said by either; Kit was too much afraid of him to talk; Elliot was secretly forming a desperate resolution; and, perhaps, he might be doing the same.

They walked towards the Lucases’, because Kit wished to call upon Marcus; and as Elliot saw no occasion for making it a general concern, when Kit left them he went boldly on with him alone. Now was the moment for his resolution to be executed; and while his courage was high, he immediately said,--

“Mr. Darcy, I am a very selfish creature, and for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings care not how much I may be wounding yours. I can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor brother. Ever since I have known it I have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully I feel it. Were it known to the rest of my family I should not have merely my own gratitude to express.”

“I am sorry, exceedingly sorry,” replied Darcy, in a tone of surprise and emotion, “that you have ever been informed of what may, in a mistaken light, have given you uneasiness. I did not think Mr. Gardiner was so little to be trusted.”

“You must not blame my uncle. Lyndon’s thoughtlessness first betrayed to me that you had been concerned in the matter; and, of course, I could not rest till I knew the particulars. Let me thank you again and again, in the name of all my family, for that generous compassion which induced you to take so much trouble, and bear so many mortifications, for the sake of discovering them.”

“If you _will_ thank me,” he replied, “let it be for yourself alone. That the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on, I shall not attempt to deny. But your _family_ owe me nothing. Much as I respect them, I believe I thought only of _you_.”

Elliot was too much embarrassed to say a word. After a short pause, his companion added, “You are too generous to trifle with me. If your feelings are still what they were last April, tell me so at once. _My_ affections and wishes are unchanged; but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.”

Elliot, feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiety of his situation, now forced himself to speak; and immediately, though not very fluently, gave him to understand that his sentiments had undergone so material a change since the period to which he alluded, as to make him receive with gratitude and pleasure his present assurances. The happiness which this reply produced was such as he had probably never felt before; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as warmly as a man violently in love can be supposed to do. Had Elliot been able to encounter his eyes, he might have seen how well the expression of heartfelt delight diffused over his face became him: but though he could not look he could listen; and he told him of feelings which, in proving of what importance he was to him, made his affection every moment more valuable.

They walked on without knowing in what direction. There was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects. He soon learnt that they were indebted for their present good understanding to the efforts of his uncle, who _did_ call on him in his return through London, and there relate his journey to Longbourn, its motive, and the substance of his conversation with Elliot; dwelling emphatically on every expression of the latter, which, in his Lordship’s apprehension, peculiarly denoted his perverseness and assurance, in the belief that such a relation must assist his endeavours to obtain that promise from his nephew which _he_ had refused to give. But, unluckily for his Lordship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.

“It taught me to hope,” said he, “as I had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before. I knew enough of your disposition to be certain, that had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to Mr. Catherine frankly and openly.”

Elliot coloured and laughed as he replied, “Yes, you know enough of my _frankness_ to believe me capable of _that_. After abusing you so abominably to your face, I could have no scruple in abusing you to all your relations.”

“What did you say of me that I did not deserve? For though your accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof. It was unpardonable. I cannot think of it without abhorrence.”

“We will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening,” said Elliot. “The conduct of neither, if strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then we have both, I hope, improved in civility.”

“I cannot be so easily reconciled to myself. The recollection of what I then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me. Your reproof, so well applied, I shall never forget: ‘Had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.’ Those were your words. You know not, you can scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me; though it was some time, I confess, before I was reasonable enough to allow their justice.”

“I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an impression. I had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such a way.”

“I can easily believe it. You thought me then devoid of every proper feeling, I am sure you did. The turn of your countenance I shall never forget, as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible way that would induce you to accept me.”

“Oh, do not repeat what I then said. These recollections will not do at all. I assure you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it.”

Darcy mentioned his letter. “Did it,” said he,--“did it _soon_ make you think better of me? Did you, on reading it, give any credit to its contents?”

He explained what its effects on him had been, and how gradually all his former prejudices had been removed.

“I knew,” said he, “that what I wrote must give you pain, but it was necessary. I hope you have destroyed the letter. There was one part, especially the opening of it, which I should dread your having the power of reading again. I can remember some expressions which might justly make you hate me.”

“The letter shall certainly be burnt, if you believe it essential to the preservation of my regard; but, though we have both reason to think my opinions not entirely unalterable, they are not, I hope, quite so easily changed as that implies.”

“When I wrote that letter,” replied Mr. Darcy, “I believed myself perfectly calm and cool; but I am since convinced that it was written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit.”

“The letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so. The adieu is charity itself. But think no more of the letter. The feelings of the person who wrote and the person who received it are now so widely different from what they were then, that every unpleasant circumstance attending it ought to be forgotten. You must learn some of my philosophy. Think only of the past as its remembrance gives you pleasure.”

“I cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind. _Your_ retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of ignorance. But with _me_, it is not so. Painful recollections will intrude, which cannot, which ought not to be repelled. I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle. As a child I was taught what was _right_, but I was not taught to correct my temper. I was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit. Unfortunately an only son (for many years an only _child_), I was spoiled by my parents, who, though good themselves, (my father particularly, all that was benevolent and amiable,) allowed, encouraged, almost taught me to be selfish and overbearing, to care for none beyond my own family circle, to think meanly of all the rest of the world, to _wish_ at least to think meanly of their sense and worth compared with my own. Such I was, from eight to eight-and-twenty; and such I might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest Mr. Elliot! What do I not owe you! You taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous. By you, I was properly humbled. I came to you without a doubt of my reception. You showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a man worthy of being pleased.”

“Had you then persuaded yourself that I should?”

“Indeed I had. What will you think of my vanity? I believed you to be wishing, expecting my addresses.”

“My manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, I assure you. I never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong. How you must have hated me after _that_ evening!”

“Hate you! I was angry, perhaps, at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction.”

“I am almost afraid of asking what you thought of me when we met at Pemberley. You blamed me for coming?”

“No, indeed, I felt nothing but surprise.”

“Your surprise could not be greater than _mine_ in being noticed by you. My conscience told me that I deserved no extraordinary politeness, and I confess that I did not expect to receive _more_ than my due.”

“My object _then_,” replied Mr. Darcy, “was to show you, by every civility in my power, that I was not so mean as to resent the past; and I hoped to obtain your forgiveness, to lessen your ill opinion, by letting you see that your reproofs had been attended to. How soon any other wishes introduced themselves, I can hardly tell, but I believe in about half an hour after I had seen you.”

He then told him of Mr. George's delight in his acquaintance, and of his disappointment at its sudden interruption; which naturally leading to the cause of that interruption, he soon learnt that his resolution of following him from Derbyshire in quest of his brother had been formed before he quitted the inn, and that his gravity and thoughtfulness there had arisen from no other struggles than what such a purpose must comprehend.

He expressed his gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to each to be dwelt on farther.

After walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know anything about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that it was time to be at home.

“What could have become of Mr. Bingley and Mr. John?” was a wonder which introduced the discussion of _their_ affairs. Mr. Darcy was delighted with their engagement; his friend had given him the earliest information of it.

“I must ask whether you were surprised?” said Mr. Elliot.

“Not at all. When I went away, I felt that it would soon happen.”

“That is to say, you had given your permission. I guessed as much.” And though he exclaimed at the term, he found that it had been pretty much the case.

“On the evening before my going to London,” said he, “I made a confession to him, which I believe I ought to have made long ago. I told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent. His surprise was great. He had never had the slightest suspicion. I told him, moreover, that I believed myself mistaken in supposing, as I had done, that your brother was indifferent to him; and as I could easily perceive that his attachment to him was unabated, I felt no doubt of their happiness together.”

Mr. Elliot could not help smiling at his easy manner of directing his friend.

“Did you speak from your own observation,” said he, “when you told him that my brother loved him, or merely from my information last spring?”

“From the former. I had narrowly observed him, during the two visits which I had lately made him here; and I was convinced of his affection.”

“And your assurance of it, I suppose, carried immediate conviction to him.”

“It did. Mr. Bingley is most unaffectedly modest. His diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made everything easy. I was obliged to confess one thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him. I could not allow myself to conceal that your brother had been in town three months last winter, that I had known it, and purposely kept it from him. He was angry. But his anger, I am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your brother’s sentiments. He has heartily forgiven me now.

Elliot longed to observe that Mr. Bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but he checked himself. He remembered that he had yet to learn to be laughed at, and it was rather too early to begin. In anticipating the happiness of Bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation till they reached the house. In the hall they parted.
“My dear Elliot, where can you have been walking to?” was a question which Elliot received from John as soon as he entered the room, and from all the others when they sat down to table. He had only to say in reply, that they had wandered about till he was beyond his own knowledge. He coloured as he spoke; but neither that, nor anything else, awakened a suspicion of the truth.

The evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary. The acknowledged lovers talked and laughed; the unacknowledged were silent. Darcy was not of a disposition in which happiness overflows in mirth; and Elliot, agitated and confused, rather _knew_ that he was happy than _felt_ himself to be so; for, besides the immediate embarrassment, there were other evils before him. He anticipated what would be felt in the family when his situation became known: he was aware that no one liked him but John; and even feared that with the others it was a _dislike_ which not all his fortune and consequence might do away.

At night he opened his heart to John. Though suspicion was very far from Mr. Bennet’s general habits, he was absolutely incredulous here.

“You are joking, Elliot. This cannot be! Engaged to Mr. Darcy! No, no, you shall not deceive me: I know it to be impossible.”

“This is a wretched beginning, indeed! My sole dependence was on you; and I am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not. Yet, indeed, I am in earnest. I speak nothing but the truth. He still loves me, and we are engaged.”

John looked at him doubtingly. “Oh, Elliot! it cannot be. I know how much you dislike him.”

“You know nothing of the matter. _That_ is all to be forgot. Perhaps I did not always love him so well as I do now; but in such cases as these a good memory is unpardonable. This is the last time I shall ever remember it myself.”

Mr. Bennet still looked all amazement. Elliot again, and more seriously, assured him of its truth.

“Good heaven! can it be really so? Yet now I must believe you,” cried John. “My dear, dear Elliot, I would, I do congratulate you; but are you certain--forgive the question--are you quite certain that you can be happy with him?”

“There can be no doubt of that. It is settled between us already that we are to be the happiest couple in the world. But are you pleased, John? Shall you like to have such a brother?”

“Very, very much. Nothing could give either Bingley or myself more delight. But we considered it, we talked of it as impossible. And do you really love him quite well enough? Oh, Elliot! do anything rather than marry without affection. Are you quite sure that you feel what you ought to do?”

“Oh, yes! You will only think I feel _more_ than I ought to do when I tell you all.”

“What do you mean?”

“Why, I must confess that I love him better than I do Bingley. I am afraid you will be angry.”

“My dearest brother, now be, _be_ serious. I want to talk very seriously. Let me know everything that I am to know without delay. Will you tell me how long you have loved him?”

“It has been coming on so gradually, that I hardly know when it began; but I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at Pemberley.”

Another entreaty that he would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and he soon satisfied John by his solemn assurances of attachment. When convinced on that article, Mr. Bennet had nothing further to wish.

“Now I am quite happy,” said he, “for you will be as happy as myself. I always had a value for him. Were it for nothing but his love of you, I must always have esteemed him; but now, as Bingley’s friend and your husband, there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me. But, Elliot, you have been very sly, very reserved with me. How little did you tell me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton! I owe all that I know of it to another, not to you.”

Elliot told him the motives of his secrecy. He had been unwilling to mention Bingley; and the unsettled state of his own feelings had made him equally avoid the name of his friend: but now he would no longer conceal from him his share in Lyndon’s marriage. All was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.

“Good gracious!” cried Mr. Bennet, as he stood at a window the next morning, “if that disagreeable Mr. Darcy is not coming here again with our dear Bingley! What can he mean by being so tiresome as to be always coming here? I had no notion but he would go a-shooting, or something or other, and not disturb us with his company. What shall we do with him? Elliot, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in Bingley’s way.

Elliot could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet was really vexed that his father should be always giving him such an epithet.

As soon as they entered, Bingley looked at him so expressively, and shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information; and he soon afterwards said aloud, “Mr. Bennet, have you no more lanes hereabouts in which Elliot may lose his way again to-day?”

“I advise Mr. Darcy, and Elliot, and Kit,” said Mr. Bennet, “to walk to Oakham Mount this morning. It is a nice long walk, and Mr. Darcy has never seen the view.”

“It may do very well for the others,” replied Mr. Bingley; “but I am sure it will be too much for Kit. Won’t it, Kit?”

Kit owned that he had rather stay at home. Darcy professed a great curiosity to see the view from the Mount, and Elliot silently consented. As he went upstairs to get ready, Mr. Bennet followed him, saying,--

“I am quite sorry, Elliot, that you should be forced to have that disagreeable man all to yourself; but I hope you will not mind it. It is all for John’s sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to him except just now and then; so do not put yourself to inconvenience.”

During their walk, it was resolved that Mr. Bennet’s consent should be asked in the course of the evening: Elliot reserved to himself the application for his father’s. He could not determine how his father would take it; sometimes doubting whether all his wealth and grandeur would be enough to overcome his abhorrence of the man; but whether he were violently set against the match, or violently delighted with it, it was certain that his manner would be equally ill adapted to do credit to his sense; and he could no more bear that Mr. Darcy should hear the first raptures of his joy, than the first vehemence of his disapprobation.

In the evening, soon after Mr. Bennet withdrew to the library, he saw Mr. Darcy rise also and follow him, and his agitation on seeing it was extreme. He did not fear his father’s opposition, but he was going to be made unhappy, and that it should be through his means; that he, his favourite child, should be distressing him by his choice, should be filling him with fears and regrets in disposing of him, was a wretched reflection, and he sat in misery till Mr. Darcy appeared again, when, looking at him, he was a little relieved by his smile. In a few minutes he approached the table where he was sitting with Kit; and, while pretending to admire his work, said in a whisper, “Go to your father; he wants you in the library.” He was gone directly.

His father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious. “Elliot,” said he, “what are you doing? Are you out of your senses to be accepting this man? Have not you always hated him?”

How earnestly did he then wish that his former opinions had been more reasonable, his expressions more moderate! It would have spared him from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and he assured him, with some confusion, of his attachment to Mr. Darcy.

“Or, in other words, you are determined to have him. He is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than John. But will they make you happy?”

“Have you any other objection,” said Elliot, “than your belief of my indifference?”

“None at all. We all know him to be a proud, unpleasant sort of man; but this would be nothing if you really liked him.”

“I do, I do like him,” he replied, with tears in his eyes; “I love him. Indeed he has no improper pride. He is perfectly amiable. You do not know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in such terms.”

“Elliot,” said his father, “I have given him my consent. He is the kind of man, indeed, to whom I should never dare refuse anything, which he condescended to ask. I now give it to _you_, if you are resolved on having him. But let me advise you to think better of it. I know your disposition, Elliot. I know that you could be neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband, unless you looked up to him as a superior. Your lively talents would place you in the greatest danger in an unequal marriage. You could scarcely escape discredit and misery. My child, let me not have the grief of seeing _you_ unable to respect your partner in life. You know not what you are about.”

Elliot, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in his reply; and, at length, by repeated assurances that Mr. Darcy was really the object of his choice, by explaining the gradual change which his estimation of him had undergone, relating his absolute certainty that his affection was not the work of a day, but had stood the test of many months’ suspense, and enumerating with energy all his good qualities, he did conquer his father’s incredulity, and reconcile him to the match.

“Well, my dear,” said he, when he ceased speaking, “I have no more to say. If this be the case, he deserves you. I could not have parted with you, my Elliot, to anyone less worthy.”

To complete the favourable impression, he then told him what Mr. Darcy had voluntarily done for Lyndon. He heard him with astonishment.

“This is an evening of wonders, indeed! And so, Darcy did everything; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow’s debts, and got him his commission! So much the better. It will save me a world of trouble and economy. Had it been your uncle’s doing, I must and _would_ have paid him; but these violent young lovers carry everything their own way. I shall offer to pay him to-morrow, he will rant and storm about his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.”

He then recollected his embarrassment a few days before on his reading Mr. Collins’s letter; and after laughing at him some time, allowed him at last to go, saying, as he quitted the room, “If any young men come for Martin or Kenneth, send them in, for I am quite at leisure.”

Elliot’s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after half an hour’s quiet reflection in his own room, he was able to join the others with tolerable composure. Everything was too recent for gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity would come in time.

When his father went up to his dressing-room at night, he followed him, and made the important communication. Its effect was most extraordinary; for, on first hearing it, Mr. Bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable. Nor was it under many, many minutes, that he could comprehend what he heard, though not in general backward to credit what was for the advantage of his family, or that came in the shape of a lover to any of them. He began at length to recover, to fidget about in his chair, get up, sit down again, wonder, and bless himself.

“Good gracious! Lord bless me! only think! dear me! Mr. Darcy! Who would have thought it? And is it really true? Oh, my sweetest Elliot! how rich and how great you will be! What pin-money, what jewels, what carriages you will have! John’s is nothing to it--nothing at all. I am so pleased--so happy. Such a charming man! so handsome! so tall! Oh, my dear Elliot! pray apologize for my having disliked him so much before. I hope he will overlook it. Dear, dear Elliot. A house in town! Everything that is charming! Three sons married! Ten thousand a year! Oh, Lord! what will become of me? I shall go distracted.”

This was enough to prove that his approbation need not be doubted; and Elliot, rejoicing that such an effusion was heard only by himself, soon went away. But before he had been three minutes in his own room, his father followed him.

“My dearest child,” he cried, “I can think of nothing else. Ten thousand a year, and very likely more! ’Tis as good as a lord! And a special licence--you must and shall be married by a special licence. But, my dearest love, tell me what dish Mr. Darcy is particularly fond of, that I may have it to-morrow.”

This was a sad omen of what his father’s behaviour to the gentleman himself might be; and Elliot found that, though in the certain possession of his warmest affection, and secure of his relations’ consent, there was still something to be wished for. But the morrow passed off much better than he expected; for Mr. Bennet luckily stood in such awe of his intended son-in-law, that he ventured not to speak to him, unless it was in his power to offer him any attention, or mark his deference for his opinion.

Elliot had the satisfaction of seeing his father taking pains to get acquainted with him; and Mr. Bennet soon assured him that he was rising every hour in his esteem.

“I admire all my three sons-in-law highly,” said he. “Wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but I think I shall like _your_ husband quite as well as John’s.”
Elliot’s spirits soon rising to playfulness again, he wanted Mr. Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with him. “How could you begin?” said he. “I can comprehend your going on charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first place?”

“I cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation. It is too long ago. I was in the middle before I knew that I _had_ begun.”

“My beauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners--my behaviour to _you_ was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and I never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not. Now, be sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?”

“For the liveliness of your mind I did.”

“You may as well call it impertinence at once. It was very little less. The fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious attention. You were disgusted with the men who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for _your_ approbation alone. I roused and interested you, because I was so unlike _them_. Had you not been really amiable you would have hated me for it: but in spite of the pains you took to disguise yourself, your feelings were always noble and just; and in your heart you thoroughly despised the persons who so assiduously courted you. There--I have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, I begin to think it perfectly reasonable. To be sure you know no actual good of me--but nobody thinks of _that_ when they fall in love.”

“Was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to John, while he was ill at Netherfield?”

“Dearest John! who could have done less for him? But make a virtue of it by all means. My good qualities are under your protection, and you are to exaggerate them as much as possible; and, in return, it belongs to me to find occasions for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as may be; and I shall begin directly, by asking you what made you so unwilling to come to the point at last? What made you so shy of me, when you first called, and afterwards dined here? Why, especially, when you called, did you look as if you did not care about me?”

“Because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement.”

“But I was embarrassed.”

“And so was I.”

“You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner.”

“A man who had felt less might.”

“How unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that I should be so reasonable as to admit it! But I wonder how long you _would_ have gone on, if you had been left to yourself. I wonder when you _would_ have spoken if I had not asked you! My resolution of thanking you for your kindness to Lionel had certainly great effect. _Too much_, I am afraid; for what becomes of the moral, if our comfort springs from a breach of promise, for I ought not to have mentioned the subject? This will never do.”

“You need not distress yourself. The moral will be perfectly fair. Mr. Catherine’s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of removing all my doubts. I am not indebted for my present happiness to your eager desire of expressing your gratitude. I was not in a humour to wait for an opening of yours. My uncle’s intelligence had given me hope, and I was determined at once to know everything.”

“Mr. Catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make him happy, for he loves to be of use. But tell me, what did you come down to Netherfield for? Was it merely to ride to Longbourn and be embarrassed? or had you intended any more serious consequences?”

“My real purpose was to see _you_, and to judge, if I could, whether I might ever hope to make you love me. My avowed one, or what I avowed to myself, was to see whether your brother was still partial to Bingley, and if he were, to make the confession to him which I have since made.”

“Shall you ever have courage to announce to Mr. Catherine what is to befall him?”

“I am more likely to want time than courage, Elliot. But it ought to be done; and if you will give me a sheet of paper it shall be done directly.”

“And if I had not a letter to write myself, I might sit by you, and admire the evenness of your writing, as another young gentleman once did. But I have an uncle, too, who must not be longer neglected.”

From an unwillingness to confess how much his intimacy with Mr. Darcy had been overrated, Elliot had never yet answered Mr. Gardiner’s long letter; but now, having _that_ to communicate which he knew would be most welcome, he was almost ashamed to find that his uncle and uncle had already lost three days of happiness, and immediately wrote as follows:--

“I would have thanked you before, my dear uncle, as I ought to have done, for your long, kind, satisfactory detail of particulars; but, to say the truth, I was too cross to write. You supposed more than really existed. But _now_ suppose as much as you choose; give a loose to your fancy, indulge your imagination in every possible flight which the subject will afford, and unless you believe me actually married, you cannot greatly err. You must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last. I thank you again and again, for not going to the Lakes. How could I be so silly as to wish it! Your idea of the ponies is delightful. We will go round the park every day. I am the happiest creature in the world. Perhaps other people have said so before, but no one with such justice. I am happier even than John; he only smiles, I laugh. Mr. Darcy sends you all the love in the world that can be spared from me. You are all to come to Pemberley at Christmas. Yours,” etc.

Mr. Darcy’s letter to Mr. Catherine was in a different style, and still different from either was what Mr. Bennet sent to Mr. Collins, in return for his last.

/* “Dear Sir, */

“I must trouble you once more for congratulations. Elliot will soon be the husband of Mr. Darcy. Console Mr. Catherine as well as you can. But, if I were you, I would stand by the nephew. He has more to give.

“Yours sincerely,” etc.

Mr. Bingley’s congratulations to his brother on his approaching marriage were all that was affectionate and insincere. He wrote even to John on the occasion, to express his delight, and repeat all his former professions of regard. John was not deceived, but he was affected; and though feeling no reliance on him, could not help writing him a much kinder answer than he knew was deserved.

The joy which Mr. Darcy expressed on receiving similar information was as sincere as his brother’s in sending it. Four sides of paper were insufficient to contain all his delight, and all his earnest desire of being loved by his brother.

Before any answer could arrive from Mr. Collins, or any congratulations to Elliot from his husband, the Longbourn family heard that the Collinses were come themselves to Lucas Lodge. The reason of this sudden removal was soon evident. Mr. Catherine had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of his nephew’s letter, that Charles, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over. At such a moment, the arrival of his friend was a sincere pleasure to Elliot, though in the course of their meetings he must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when he saw Mr. Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of his husband. He bore it, however, with admirable calmness. He could even listen to Sir William Lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at St. James’s, with very decent composure. If he did shrug his shoulders, it was not till Sir William was out of sight.

Mr. Philips’s vulgarity was another, and, perhaps, a greater tax on his forbearance; and though Mr. Philips, as well as his brother, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which Bingley’s good-humour encouraged; yet, whenever he _did_ speak, he must be vulgar. Nor was his respect for him, though it made him more quiet, at all likely to make him more elegant. Elliot did all he could to shield him from the frequent notice of either, and was ever anxious to keep him to himself, and to those of his family with whom he might converse without mortification; and though the uncomfortable feelings arising from all this took from the season of courtship much of its pleasure, it added to the hope of the future; and he looked forward with delight to the time when they should be removed from society so little pleasing to either, to all the comfort and elegance of their family party at Pemberley.
Happy for all his paternal feelings was the day on which Mr. Bennet got rid of his two most deserving sons. With what delighted pride he afterwards visited Mr. Bingley, and talked of Mr. Darcy, may be guessed. I wish I could say, for the sake of his family, that the accomplishment of his earnest desire in the establishment of so many of his children produced so happy an effect as to make him a sensible, amiable, well-informed man for the rest of his life; though, perhaps, it was lucky for his husband, who might not have relished domestic felicity in so unusual a form, that he still was occasionally nervous and invariably silly.

Mr. Bennet missed his second son exceedingly; his affection for him drew him oftener from home than anything else could do. He delighted in going to Pemberley, especially when he was least expected.

Mr. Bingley and John remained at Netherfield only a twelvemonth. So near a vicinity to his father and Meryton relations was not desirable even to his easy temper, or his affectionate heart. The darling wish of his brothers was then gratified: he bought an estate in a neighbouring county to Derbyshire; and John and Elliot, in addition to every other source of happiness, were within thirty miles of each other.

Kit, to his very material advantage, spent the chief of his time with his two elder brothers. In society so superior to what he had generally known, his improvement was great. He was not of so ungovernable a temper as Lionel; and, removed from the influence of Lionel’s example, he became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid. From the further disadvantage of Lionel’s society he was of course carefully kept; and though Mr. Wickham frequently invited him to come and stay with him, with the promise of balls and young men, his father would never consent to his going.

Martin was the only son who remained at home; and he was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by Mr. Bennet’s being quite unable to sit alone. Martin was obliged to mix more with the world, but he could still moralize over every morning visit; and as he was no longer mortified by comparisons between his brothers’ beauty and his own, it was suspected by his father that he submitted to the change without much reluctance.

As for Wickham and Lionel, their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of his brothers. He bore with philosophy the conviction that Elliot must now become acquainted with whatever of his ingratitude and falsehood had before been unknown to him; and, in spite of everything, was not wholly without hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on to make his fortune. The congratulatory letter which Elliot received from Lionel on his marriage explained to him that, by his husband at least, if not by himself, such a hope was cherished. The letter was to this effect:--

/* “My dear Elliot, */

“I wish you joy. If you love Mr. Darcy half so well as I do my dear Wickham, you must be very happy. It is a great comfort to have you so rich; and when you have nothing else to do, I hope you will think of us. I am sure Wickham would like a place at court very much; and I do not think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help. Any place would do of about three or four hundred a year; but, however, do not speak to Mr. Darcy about it, if you had rather not.

“Yours,” etc.

As it happened that Elliot had much rather not, he endeavoured in his answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind. Such relief, however, as it was in his power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in his own private expenses, he frequently sent them. It had always been evident to him that such an income as theirs, under the direction of two persons so extravagant in their wants, and heedless of the future, must be very insufficient to their support; and whenever they changed their quarters, either John or himself were sure of being applied to for some little assistance towards discharging their bills. Their manner of living, even when the restoration of peace dismissed them to a home, was unsettled in the extreme. They were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought. His affection for him soon sunk into indifference: his lasted a little longer; and, in spite of his youth and his manners, he retained all the claims to reputation which his marriage had given him. Though Darcy could never receive _him_ at Pemberley, yet, for Elliot’s sake, he assisted him further in his profession. Lyndon was occasionally a visitor there, when his husband was gone to enjoy himself in London or Bath; and with the Bingleys they both of them frequently stayed so long, that even Bingley’s good-humour was overcome, and he proceeded so far as to _talk_ of giving them a hint to be gone.

Mr. Bingley was very deeply mortified by Darcy’s marriage; but as he thought it advisable to retain the right of visiting at Pemberley, he dropped all his resentment; was fonder than ever of George, almost as attentive to Darcy as heretofore, and paid off every arrear of civility to Elliot.

Pemberley was now George’s home; and the attachment of the brothers was exactly what Darcy had hoped to see. They were able to love each other, even as well as they intended. George had the highest opinion in the world of Elliot; though at first he often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at his lively, sportive manner of talking to his brother. He, who had always inspired in himself a respect which almost overcame his affection, he now saw the object of open pleasantry. His mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in his way. By Elliot’s instructions he began to comprehend that a man may take liberties with his husband, which a brother will not always allow in a brother more than ten years younger than himself.

Mr. Catherine was extremely indignant on the marriage of his nephew; and as he gave way to all the genuine frankness of his character, in his reply to the letter which announced its arrangement, he sent him language so very abusive, especially of Elliot, that for some time all intercourse was at an end. But at length, by Elliot’s persuasion, he was prevailed on to overlook the offence, and seek a reconciliation; and, after a little further resistance on the part of his uncle, his resentment gave way, either to his affection for him, or his curiosity to see how his husband conducted himself; and he condescended to wait on them at Pemberley, in spite of that pollution which its woods had received, not merely from the presence of such a master, but the visits of his uncle and uncle from the city.

With the Gardiners they were always on the most intimate terms. Darcy, as well as Elliot, really loved them; and they were both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the persons who, by bringing him into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting them.

CHISWICK PRESS:--CHARLES WHITTINGHAM AND Co.  TOOKS COURT, CHANCERY LANE, LONDON.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ***